        so-so printed pictures, October 8, 2007
        ByK. Nguyen  - See all my reviews
I want to give this 3 1/2 stars, but it's not possible so I'm giving it 3 stars.  Bought the Kodak EasyShare V1003 in July for my mom.  She's never had a digital camera before so I was looking for something easy to use, not too many complicated buttons.  The camera was easy for her to learn how to use.  The problem came when we printed out some pictures.  The quality of the printed pictures was iffy.  Some shots were stunning, great color, unbelievable detail.  Others looked much worse than they did on the camera's LCD screen and the computer screen.  I noticed that bad shots occured most often when we took pictures of people inside.  Faces were not very detailed, and everything came out much darker than it looked on the camera's and computer's screens.  I played around with the camera a lot over the past week, taking lots of test shots in different settings, and I've come to the conclusion that the camera has problems with taking photos of groups of people (bad facial detailing) in indoor situations from more than five feet away.  If you stand pretty close to someone, the camera usually does ok (flash can sometimes be too powerful, washing out details and colors) but faces are blurry when you stand further away compared to the output of other digital cameras (my relatives have Canon and Sony cameras).  The pictures are ok, certainly comparable in quality to our old 35mm film camera from the 90s.  It's just that other modern digital cameras can capture much finer detail of faces in in-door situations than this Kodak.  I've learned the hard way that megapixels aren't everything, camera lens and in-camera processing matters alot too.  I've just ordered a 7 megapixel Canon model for my mother.  My sister has this Canon and the print output from her camera is fantastic compared to what we've gotten from this Kodak.  Shop around, higher megapixels don't translate into better details in photos.
