        Durable point-and-shoot for the outdoors, November 2, 2008
        ByMichael Kerber (Chapel Hill, NC USA)  - See all my reviews
I bought this camera to replace my old powershot SD700, which broke when it was dropped onto a carpeted floor from a height of maybe 4 feet.  Overall, I'm happy with the Olympus, but it falls short of my SD700 in a few areas.Pros:- The Olympus is smaller than I expected.  It fits easily into my pocket and is not cumbersome to carry around on backpacking trips, for example.- This thing is durable.  You can feel the "sturdiness."  I added a screen protector from bestskinsever, and now I feel like it's indestructible.  I never worry about it.- It does a great job with macros (close-ups).  It even has a special macro mode that uses a small, built-in LED to light your subject.  Very nice feature.- It has an impressive zoom; better than the 3X of my old SD700.- It has an impressively high-res CCD: 10.1MP; again, better than my old SD700.Cons:- My old SD700 still took better pictures.  I can't think of a way to quantify this qualitative observation, but I think it's true.  I recently went on a backpacking trip and my buddy brought his camera, which happened to be an SD700.  We took pictures of the same scenery, but the Fall colors looked more vibrant through his camera.  Images also seem..."sharper" with the SD700, despite the megapixel advantage of the Olympus.  Maybe someone who knows more about cameras could explain this.- There are a handful of different acquisition settings on the Olympus, but navigating to them is not very intuitive and definitely not very fast.  - There's no real manual control of things like shutter speed, etc.I use this camera for all of my outdoor activities: backpacking, snowboarding, climbing, and trips to the beach.  That's what this thing was made for, and it feels good to carry it around in my pocket or toss it into my gear bag without worrying about it breaking like my other cameras.  The pictures it takes are good enough for me, but are out-shined even by older, cheaper cameras of the same size.  If you get this camera, you'll like it.  Just keep in mind that you're paying quite a premium for durability.
