        Not sure what to expect, October 25, 2008
        ByA. Groth (Norway)  - See all my reviews
I've researched almost all beginner/advanced DSLRs on the market, preparing the move from digital compacts to DSLR (I'm familiar with film SLRs however).Anyway, exhausted from the fact that the perfect DSLR still has not been produced (every single model has something really bad about it: Canon 450D's grip and build quality, Olympus E-520's tiny viewfinder, Nikon D60's very basic metering, and none of these models has a live view implementation that would really make me use it), I decided to go for Pentax which has good performance on the above issues. Looking initially into the K20D, I decided to get the cheaper body of the K200D and invest in better lenses instead. The K200D felt very good in my hands, and its large and bright viewfinder is the best in its class. The availability of high quality and still affordable lenses with shake reduction built into the camera body was also a deal maker. Amazon and Adorama delivered in 2 days as promised.A couple of weeks after purchase I have a collection of some very nice shots, but still I'm a bit disappointed. Autofocus is unpredictable: sometimes the camera shoots lightning fast, even in burst mode, at other times is struggles to focus with no apparent reason, even with the prime 50mm f1,4 and the new 17-70 f4 zoom. This means that I miss some nice shots while the camera is focussing. When the camera finally does take a shot, I'd say 1 out of 3 shots is out of focus. I end up taking lots of photos hoping one of them will be right.TO be fair, when the K200D gets the focussing right, the results are very good. Colors are very natural, the exposure is always spot-on, and wireless flash (got the 360FGZ) works very well, too. The viewfinder is wonderful to work with.All in all, I'm not sure what to expect for this price. The K200D's speed is unstable compared to all other cameras I've used (digital and film). Too bad, but perhaps I'm just expeting too much.
