        A590IS - Awful battery life, February 17, 2009
        ByJ. N. Barstow Jr. "offshore1" (Melrose MA USA)  - See all my reviews
I've had the PowerShot a590IS for only about a month now.  I didn't expect the two AA batteries or the SD card that came with it to be anything spectacular.  They weren't.  Replaced the card with a 1gb eFilm PRO SD card and solved that problem.  But the batteries -- After the supplied batteries quickly died, I replaced them with a pair of 2300 mAh Lenmar rechargables - fully charged.  I expected to be off and running with a reasonable amount of battery life on hand.  Not so.  That wretched little, red low battery flashing icon came on in less than two hours of non-constant camera use.  Two additional, freshly charged, batteries had the same result.  I'm thinking this may be partially my fault as I did use the LED screen and flash about half that time.  But I really do think I should have gotten more use from these batteries.  So, I have purchased a pack of four Sanyo NiMH, Eneloop batteries and await their arrival.  I did a lot of research on which batteries to purchase and try, and these seem to come out on top. It is claimed these particular batteries don't leak juice, just sitting there, the way others will. I have a Nikon dSLR and a Canon SD870IS and I'm just not used to low battery life.  I wish this a590IS had the same type of battery that's in the 870. Perhaps I see the need to change the approach I have of tending to battery life with my use of the a590 camera.  I've shut the LED off (on the 590) except for a few seconds of post-view after a shot.  I have to use the LED to compose with the 870IS, but won't with the a590.  I also find that the 590 gives me a "softer" print than the 870, but I can live with this.  I really only want the a590 as a camera that can travel with me that I dont have to worry about.  But, it would be nice to get some mileage out of it if I'm along the coast of Maine, or some such place for the day where it would get a good amount of use.  I do really like this a590IS, but give it only three stars because I have no confidence in it's ability to last a reasonable amount of time.  It hasn't done that yet.  Perhaps the new batteries and my new approach (which I don't really think I should have to take) will make a difference here.  I'll edit this whole thing if that's my experience after a reasonable amount of time.  Maybe I should have gotten the updated Canon SD880IS and use 870IS as my travel companion. That would have been a great idea, but the 870IS is too expensive for the casual attitude I could have with the a590.  Again, I do like the a590, but it does chew up the batteries - at least for me.  I hope that changes.  If it does, I'll report that.  Until then. . . .           
