        ISO 200 and above too noisy, January 18, 2009
        ByPhotological  - See all my reviews
Sometimes I wonder if someone slipped me the wrong camera.My Canon A95 was such a wonderful thing; flip and turn LCD screen, good clear shots, relatively fast speed (2.8), great for macros.  But somewhere, the A630 just leaves me missing my A95 (the first camera met a salty demise in one of those camera "baggies" in the Gulf of Mexico looking for jewfish).First I'll tell you what I did find to be pros about the camera:-Flip and turn lcd - big and it FLIPS AND TURNS.  Very nice for macros and sneaky shots.-Quick shutter button reaction - you don't have to wait forever between pushing the shutter and actually taking the picture.  It's almost instantaneously in my experience.-You can use accessories with it - buy an off brand extension and you can put polarizing filters (i highly recommend this), a Cokin set with a ND graduated filter and your landscape or sunrise/set shots will suddenly get much greater.  Even without anything on the extension, it acts like a hood and keeps glare from marring a shot.-This is my camera of choice for macros and infrared shots (using a filter).  You can get millimeters away from things. It's amazing. It's like having a microscope with 100x magnifier.And my main camera (an EOS digital Canon camera) doesn't have the advantage of actually seeing through the infrared filter (which is a deep red/almost black), so it's difficult to frame shots.  The A630 lets you see through the filter on the LCD screen.Now, the not so hot;-You're limited in the use of your ISO.  Anything over 200 is unusable in my opinion (and 200 is not that hot either).  Any ISO under 100 is unusable without a tripod or hands of steel.-The size.  Not small enough to tuck in your pocket.  I really wish it were.  This is supposed to be my little camera.-Photo quality.  I know this camera should take better pictures than my A95 but I'm just not convinced it does.All in all, get it for a reallyreally good price and you should be happy.  :)
