        Camera not bad.  Customer service?  Not good., June 16, 2008
        ByS. Hagood (Bridgeport, Ohio)  - See all my reviews
Back in January, after owning my Canon PowerShot A630 for about a month, the camera began not focusing in Portrait mode. The only way I could get it to work was to push extremely hard on the shutter button and it was as if it pushed something back into place.Since my camera was new I called up Canon, sent the camera to them to repair, and waited.Now, I've owned digital cameras from the time they were 1 megapixel. First a Kodak, then two Olympus, then the Canon. The only reason I got the Canon is because my Olympus cost over $1000 and the smaller camera was easier to take to places where I might get knocked around (concerts, moshpits, etc.). And I liked the cool flip screen.They sent my camera back with the problem undiagnosed, stating they cleaned it. They also stated that the camera had damage. It didn't have ANY.Fast forward, and I'm at a friend's house and I drop my camera out of my hand onto the coffee table, leaves a few dents on the case. My camera had STILL been not focusing, but I had found a quick fix - slam the bottom of it on a flat surface and it worked. Feeling that I shouldn't have paid $300 for a camera with a problem, I contact Canon again. I tell them that when I sent my camera in that it had NO damage, and the document I received back said that it did. Now that the camera had damage, my fear was that they would blame me for the malfunctioning focus, and make me pay for the repairs. I got back a form email telling me to send the camera to them.Uhm... no.I call them today and talk to someone explaining why I didn't want to send the camera back, just to see if they would simply offer to send me a replacement camera. Nope! They said that I could send it back to them at their expense, but they wouldn't know anything about the repairs until they were able to look at it.  They already DID!  So now they want to look at it and see if the new damage negates the old problem?When I looked up the problem in the database originally it didn't even give a diagnosis, it just said to send it to them for repair, so I assumed they knew what the issue was. Waste of my time and money buying this camera. And the amusing thing is that I told them I'll never buy another Canon camera and they seemed to not care. Why should they? Camera is paid for!I will never purchase another Canon camera.
