        Not what I expected, December 5, 2006
        ByFlaming June (Georgia)  - See all my reviews
I currently own a Canon A80 (which I love) and was interested in upgrading to the highly reviewed A630.  I received the camera in time for Thanksgiving and took about 200 photos with it in a variety of conditions.  Everything was great until I got home and downloaded my photos to the computer.  About half of them were blurry... but worse, ALL of my indoor shots had a lot of noise.  I took some more test shots, and noticed that the "camera movement" icon came on every time I used the zoom on indoor shots or any time I tried to take an indoor shot without the flash.  After calling customer service, I was convinced that I just had a defective camera, so I contacted Amazon and they were wonderful about sending another camera right out.Today I received the second camera.  It was no different from the first.  I am a point and shoot photographer who is mostly interested in taking photos of my children... so I took a variety of photos using the same settings on both of my cameras (a80 and a630) then downloaded them to my computer for comparison.  I even printed out several photos to make sure the problems weren't with my monitor.   Outdoor photos were excellent on both, however there was a huge difference inside.  In a well lit room with plenty of natural light from outside, the a630 still produced significant noise, while my a80 on the same setting (auto) produced clear noise-free photos.  When my toddler was moving, I got mostly blurry photos with the a630 on auto as well as using the "kids and pets" mode, while my a80 produced crisp and clear photos.I love Canon cameras, and this was my 3rd PowerShot.  I really expected to love this camera as much as my previous Canons.  Now I don't know whether I should even try to find a newer camera, if the inside shots are going to be like this.Things I liked about the a630:LARGE LCDNice quality moviesScene assistsGreat outdoor shotsVery accurate colorsQuick shutter responseThings I didn't like about the a630:Poor quality inside shots with lots of noise and blurry results.If I were a pro, I could probably figure out how to use the manual controls to fix my indoor problems... but I'm just a mom who wants some cute photos of her kids, so this didn't work for me.  I'm sticking with my slow-but-dependable A80.
