        Buy this camera, buy this camera, buy this camera!, January 3, 2005
        ByChristy L. "scrappy_mom" (Houston, TX)  - See all my reviews
I can not say enough good things about this camera.  Period.  There are not enough good descriptive words to even begin to express how fabulous it really is.  I bought this after dropping and breaking my Sony Cybershot (which I hated anyway, the macro function was a joke).I will guard this camera with my life.  The pictures are PERFECT.  The features, of which there are many, are so simple to operate that a llama could figure it out.  I am a picture taking fanatic and I am heavy into scrapbooking... this camera captures perfect shots of my son AND our outings/vacations.  I have not been disappointed with a single picture yet (unless my poor framing was to blame).The thing that impressed me the most is the almost non-existent delay when using the flash.  I had missed MANY a spontaneous shot with my Sony because of the ridiculous flash delay, but never again!  Rapid speed picture taking is almost flawless, and the Sports function captures subjects in motion beautifully.The macro function is outstanding and EASY.  My close-up photos are breathtaking, and I am in awe that this camera performs so easily and wonderfully.UPDATE 01/05 - I had posted a website in this review which DOES NOT SELL ANYTHING - they simply give unbiased reviews of any digital camera you can imagine.  I recommend reading their review of this camera, as it was my deciding factor after months of research.  Amazon, however, removed the link I provided, because they are weird.  The website is w w w DOT steves-digicams DOT c o m.  I am in no way affiliated with the website, but I have used it extensively while camera hunting these past few months.  I bought my Kodak based on this review, and I am so glad I did.  You won't be disappointed!I do recommend checking out a charging or printer dock.  I have written a review of the printer dock, please check it out for my thoughts on it's performance.  :)
