        SLEEPER VALUE OF THE YEAR, May 8, 2008
        ByS. Pettry (Florida)  - See all my reviews
 I have been an amateur photographer since the late 70's and have always used Nikon cameras FM, F3 and later on a 995 digital Nikon. I always wanted to get into digital SLR's and I could never justify the price of the D100 D200 or D300 and the D40's and lower priced Nikon SLR's felt kind of cheap. I looked at other cameras in the price range of the K200D including Canon, Olympus and Sony and none of them had the build quality of the K200D with its stainless frame and weather sealed body. Also the shake reduction in the Pentax body sure beats having to buy expensive lenses such as the Nikon and Canon to get the same effect. The CCD is a carryover from the K10D which is a highly rated camera and the K200D shares many of the same features as the flagship Pentax K20D such as 2.7" LCD, front programable RAW switch, the newly modified text in menu screens that did away with jibberish abbreviations and the CCD cleaning system which vibrates and you can take a picture of CCD to see where particles of dust are located. It's not a 100% accurate there are times you still have to blow off CCD with bulb blower, but there is a cleaning mode in which you can lock up mirror and not have to hold shutter open with bulb setting. The K200D uses AA batteries which I like, they are easily found. I have been using 2500mah rechargeable SONY NiMh and getting approx 800 shots from a full charge. You can add a battery grip and add 4 more batteries. The camera will switch from camera battery to grip battery when power is low which doubles the amount of shots. Plus grip has a vertical shutter button.    The kit lens is among the best kit lenses out there surpassing many with very clear shots and very good auto focusing.     The K200D has simple settings for the beginner and lots of manual control for advanced photographers. Very well laid out controls and very easy to understand. If you are familiar with 35mm SLR's it seems like a natural transition.   The only downside I see to this camera is fast multiple exposure shooting. If you are looking for strictly sports photography where you shoot 10 20 frames rapid series then this is not your camera.      Bottom Line for the majority of people looking for the best value at this price and even a little more, the K200D ranks at the top of the list.
