        No justice to give it a 4, October 1, 2007
        ByChristopher  - See all my reviews
The pentax K10D. What an amazing piece of equipment. I also own the Pentax K1000 which for you new to the photo world was basically the standard of 35 milimeter SLR Film cameras. All of the lenses are interchangeable and still to this day work flawlessly. Upon opening the box i felt the same feeling i get when i open an ipod box. Its pretty plain, and simple. Except Black instead of White ;-). The camera Truly works amazingly and the anti-shake does a great job. My professor didn't believe that it actually worked so i took a shot at a third of a second 1/3, with and without of the same subject, F-stop, and shutterspeed. The results were amazing. The shot i took free hand was hardly readable (took a pic of a flash drive), while the picture i took with shake reduction was amazing. I think i even felt it vibrate a little as it moved the sensor while i was shaking. Pros: Amazing Lenses. Honestly canon doesn't have anything on us ;-). Our lenses are proven to last and as many will say "If you want the best glass go with pentax." Nice big LCD screen, though it is the standard, they make good use of the size unlike some other brands. You can grip it extremely well. When your holding it, even if your sweating, you feel in total control. The strap is cushioned and comfortable, not to mention stylish. Continuous shot may be taken until the card is completly filled. The quality of the images that come out of this camera are also rivals to high-end cameras. Two wheels conveniently located on the front and rear of the grip. One for F-stop and one for Shutterspeed. They work amazingly and are so appreciated. SD cards. They are cheap, fast, and easy to find. FAST Processing. You can skim through pictures lightning fast and even do it while zoomed in (scroll in with the front most wheel, then use the one on the front of the camera to go between pics retaining the zoom) Cons: its big (but i like that... some might not). The Menu is a tiny bit confusing. But once you get used to it, its very easy. The lense that comes with it is a fantastic lense but i really honestly wish it was maybe 20's up to 70's just so you have a bit more of a verity. This lense will most certainly kick the canon xti's cheapo one out the door but i still think this should have been a little bigger. Not many pixels for such a large screen. Sure you don't need them, but it could have been just one more thing this camera had over canon ;-). Other Notes: I did my research for nearly 3 months. I honestly took the time, talked to experts, and i kept coming to the Pentax K10D and the Olympus e-510. Both look like great cameras, but the sheer fact that the pentax is that much more sealed + a steel frame goes to show this one was built to last while the other one was built to make it look good in hype but maybe not last as long as you would like.. Goodluck! If you don't like this camera i don't hate you, but if your going to get something else i suggest the olympus, or the other pentax DSLRs.
