        Great Little Camera, June 9, 2008
        ByK. S. Bowen "KS Bowen" (California)  - See all my reviews
I've owned digital SLRs for many years and I needed a P&S camera to take along for snapshot photos. This camera turned out to be the perfect choice for me. It is so small it can easily be carried anywhere. The photos are not as good as those from my SLRs, of course, but they are excellent, nonetheless. The point is, I can take this camera anywhere for any occasion and get the shot, whereas I can't and won't do that with the pro equipment. There are several features I especially like, including manual controls, widescreen mode, time-lapse movie mode, macro mode and a remarkably useable digital zoom. The camera has enough manual controls to satisfy my need for tweaking, especially since I usually prefer the lowest ISO possible with flash forced 'off.'  When I shoot in widescreen mode, I can view the photos on my 16x9 widescreen TV and they look great. As a matter of fact, I'm shooting in 16x9 widescreen format pretty much all the time now because of this capability. Digital zoom has changed--no longer do you get blocky images from the camera's blowing up a portion of the sensor's image. Due to the sensor's high megapixel count, the blown up portion no longer looks pixelated as in previous models. It's like having a telephoto lens inside the camera to get those shots at the rare times when it's needed. Macro mode performs so well that flower photos rival those from my SLRs. The camera also has an excellent movie mode, including a fun time-lapse feature.Previous Canon sensors on P&S cameras were 'use at your own risk' when shooting above ISO 100. This camera's sensor has improved considerably by providing what I would call 'very good' photos at ISO 200, 'good' photos at ISO 400 and 'acceptable' shots at ISO 800. I use noise-reduction software to clean up photos, anyway, but I'm pleased that Canon has improved their sensor and in-camera software.Couple all of these features with IS, which virtually eliminates shaking and blurry pictures, and Canon has another winner on its hands. I predict sales of this little gem will be off the charts.
