        Couldn't be much happier, November 23, 2008
        ByDaniel Wickham "danielp" (Western NY-USA)  - See all my reviews
Pentax K200D 10.2MP Digital SLR Camera with Shake Reduction (Body Only)Let me add to the positive reviews for this camera, and please realize I am a picture taker, not a commercial Pro, so my viewpoint may differ a bit. I have had Pentax cameras since the sixties in one form or another. I have also had Canons, and Nikons. This is not to put down any of them, I just think Pentax stands side by side with the best of them.This model, K200d will make most anyone very happy with the results. If you do your part, it will do it's part. If the default settings for "vividness-sharpness-contrast-etc) aren't to your liking they can easily be changed. ISO from 100-1600 are very useable. Even at 1600 the noise is minimal, not like most "point and shoots" where anything above 200 shows noticable to severe static. (that is one of the biggest advantages of a DSLR--you can shoot in light that would stop you otherwise) The shake reduction may not be the miracle that Pentax claims, but it is a great tool and will save some otherwise lost/blurred shots. Just don't expect to use a 400mm lens at dusk, handheld, unless you are a statue.This model has been criticized for having to use the menus instead of a readily available dedicated wheel, or button. True, The K20 is nicer in that way, with the extra control wheel, and such. BUT, most of us will find our favorite settings in the menus and leave them pretty much alone. If you are using AV or TV modes, it isn't difficult to use a finger, and your thumb at the same time, unless you fall down a lot while trying to walk and chew gum at the same time. This is something a pro would use all the time, so it is a THING to them, but not a biggie for the average guy/gal, at least it has been a big 0 in the "pita" category for me.You can also readjust your shots in the camera, to a degree. Or shoot RAW and you can really readjust shots. Some claim you need to shoot RAW to get nice resolution, or colors. I shoot jpeg 90% of the time, and my shots (if I do my part) are very colorful, and resolution is not a problem. If I were shooting a wedding, I will use RAW as a precaution, but have not found it necessary. If you prefer RAW, then by all means it is there for you. Some say Pentax always tends to under expose. Well, they do, but you can lighten up an image if need be to correct it, many Nikon shots get blown out by bright colors, and that is hard to impossible to fix. Both cameras (and canon-panasonic-sony-etc) also let you + or - the compensation to fix whatever you see as a problem, so if you think it underexposes set it +1, and try that. If it over exposes try -1 and try that until you are where you want to be. In short this will do just about anything you need to do. You can go AUTO, and be very happy once you set it up, or you can be as creative as you can be. The K20 offers a few helpful things to the Pro, but not much useable for the general population. The extra MP's aren't needed for general pictures or most any pictures. The only thing I really wish the K200d had is a "light up" lcd on the top of the camera, I find that would be beneficial to me. The K20 has it, but at another 500 bucks or thereabouts. I'll suffer through. Until I win the lottery, this is my baby, and I love her. As Mom always said "try it, you'll like it"I did get the battery grip for it. It gives you more to grip, thought this camera is quite comfortable to my hand.Also it has an EV lock, and shutter button on the ends for ease of use in different positions. Battery life with rechargeables, and lithium is great. Shoot all day, with flash, and screen under most situations. The grip will hold four more AA's to double the life. That is another thing I like, some don't. I like the AA battery power. They are easy to get in an emergency. Dedicated batteries are nice, but try to find one for your camera in a town with no camera shop. Even then a camera shop with Pentax cameras. Pentax, the inventors of so many firsts, and I think the one company that likes photography above gadgets, not that they can't make a gadget. My friend has Nikons, and he does some really nice work with them, but he spent big bucks on lenses,(the lens is the secret, not the camera as far a clarity goes) where I use kit lenses, and many of my old Takumars-M-A lenses, and screw m42s. You can use them all, even Ricoh has mounts for Pentax.(and some Sears) Just remember to take out the Ricoh locking pin (easy with a small screwdriver) or the lens will get stuck on your camera.  Dan
