        Amazing ultra-compact point&shoot for the price, January 26, 2009
        ByMinh A. Do (Fairfax, VA United States)  - See all my reviews
It's been years since I purchased an ultracompact digital camera for myself. I got a few cameras for friends and family as gifts but I decided that it was about time to get a new one and retire my old Sony Cybershot. After days of research I found that I liked the image quality of Canon, so it was just a matter of choosing the camera with the features I wanted. Ultimately the research led me to the PowerShot SD1100IS. An after-Thanksgiving sale at BestBuy got me the camera, an extra battery, a case, and a 2GB SD card for only $150. So after having used this camera for a couple months now, here is what I can say about it. First, the good:   - Stylish, small and light. It really is an eye catcher, especially in the colors offered. Canon isn't known to make the slimmest or gimmicky cameras, but I still had people complimenting it. It's small enough to fit in my pocket without being uncomfortable or bulgy.   - Image quality rivals some dSLR shots. The lighting conditions don't even have to be ideal and I have still managed some amazing shots. I'm sure the optical image stabilization has a lot to do with it, but the colors captured just seem more like what my eyes really see. I'm not anywhere near professional, and yet this camera manages to make it easy to take good photos. I've found that I rarely if ever need to go to Photoshop to make color and contrast corrections anymore.   - Along the same lines as above, the built-in red-eye correction functionality works amazingly well. This probably isn't a new feature on most cameras, but I haven't had a new digital camera in years. I found that the red-eye correction worked far better than Photoshop's eye color tool.   - Facial recognition is scary accurate... when conditions are right. More on that later. I even tried pointing it at a magazine rack in the bookstore and it put boxes around the faces on the covers.   - Fast shutter speeds and startup times. It's ready to go almost as soon as you turn it on. I've managed to turn on the camera and snag a couple shots of a speedy chipmunk in my backyard before the critter can scurry away.   - Has an optical viewfinder. Never again will I strain while staring at the screen in the outdoor sunlight.Here are the negatives that come to mind:   - Either there are no manual exposure controls, or they're hidden in such a way that I can't easily find them.   - Small-ish screen. It's the same size screen as my older Cybershot, and I can see that Canon has released ultra-compacts with bigger screens. Not too big of a deal for me given that the optical viewfinder takes up some of that valuable real-estate on such a small camera.   - It's really more of a nitpick, but the facial recognition works well only if your subjects are mostly facing forward eyes visible and their heads aren't tilted too much. People with sunglasses, or hair obscuring their eye won't be picked up from what I've found. Doesn't work at all with a sideways head.I've taken so many more photos with this in the past 2 months and I almost never have to do any post-processing to make my shots look better now. It's small enough to go with me almost everywhere. It's great for when you're going out and hanging with friends, to major events, family gatherings, and parties. I put the most mileage on it during Thanksgiving, Christmas, New Years Eve, as well as a wedding recently and the photos turn out great. It also takes decent enough videos, at least for uploading to Facebook. If you're on the fence about this camera, I highly recommend you go for it.
