        Phenomenal camera for the price, October 16, 2008
        ByMichael Bruno "M. Bruno" (Overland Park, Kansas)  - See all my reviews
I bought my Pentax K200d through Amazon at the end of July 08, and recently returned from a 47 day trip to the great American West.  I took nearly 2,600 photos under a wide variety of conditions: dust, rain, surf, museums, near freezing mountain camping, bright sun and twilight.  I am still on my second set of lithium batteries.  The original batteries that came with the camera were good for over 1400 exposures (with very little flash usage).  The results are amazing with superb color saturation and definition.  And the camera is tough, much tougher than I expected.  It feels good to hold.I am principally familiar with less expensive Nikon DSLRs, the D40, D50, D60 and D70.  The Pentax is far above these fine cameras.  I am not talking about the K20d, which I understand is even more remarkable.  At under $600 including a quality 18-55 kit lens, it is, to say the least, a bargain compared to other offerings in a very competitive field.I have been slow to break away from the world of 35mm.  However, digital has more than caught up in terms of image quality, and it has surpassed film in terms of convenience and cost.  With that in mind, I set aside my Nikon FM2 and lenses and after considerable soul searching, turned to Pentax.  In 1975, I had owned a screw mount body and later a Pentax ME, which I loved but lost to a camera snatcher.  In the `80s, I turned to Nikon, and still believe that, overall, they provide excellent products.  So I have a hand full of Pentax K and Nikon A1 lenses, which I hoped to be able to use.I was considering an upgrade to a Nikon D80, and checked it out.  The D80 was a fine camera back in 2006, but it seems a bit dated now.  The Pentax K200d feels better in my hands, much better.  The Pentax has both shake reduction in the body and a dust management system, both of which are lacking in the Nikon, and Pentax offers some marvelous new prime lenses, including a 50mm f1.4, made for dslr bodies.  My old Pentax K-mount lenses work wonderfully well and provide and inexpensive alternative.  [In the K200, you just have to go to Custom Menu, item 23 to enable the older lenses.]  After some initial experimentation, however, I stuck mostly with the 18-55 kit lens, quick, versatile and also dust and weather resistant.  Moreover, with the shake reduction, I have been able to hand hold with good results at 1/15th of a second or even less depending on the focal length.  Perhaps soon I will add the 50-200, or a nice prime lens.You can't go wrong with this camera.
