        Great Underwater Photos and Video!, July 4, 2008
        ByBadabing "Joe" (Charlotte, NC USA)  - See all my reviews
I've been using a Sony camera for a few years and was fairly happy with it.  My first digicam was an Olympus and I loved it, I'm still not sure why I bought a Sony after that???  Well, I'm happy to say that I'm back with Olympus again in this fine camera!Compared to the Soney Cybershot T-9, the Olympus is just slightly bigger and heavier, but not much of either.  I really like the way it is put together, feels solid and well made.  I've only used it for about a week now so I can't report thoroughly on it but here are my first impressions...The Good: Solid, well made feel.  Large LCD screen is very clear and easy to see in daylight.  Waterproof feature is great!  The macro functions are very nice, there is an LED light that can be turned on to highlight the subject.  It works well in Macro mode but not good for much more.  I'm not a pro but I think it takes awesome pictures.  The underwater shots I took on the first day (in the pool) were fantastic.  Everybody that sees them thinks they are great too!  I also took some underwater video and it came out great.  The underwater settings seem to work well but I haven't tried any other settings underwater yet.  One thing I want to try is video with sound underwater just to see what it picks up.  I am not using the software that came with the camera so I can't comment on that, but I will say that it comes with Olympus software that is pretty extensive.  I remember the version on my old Olympus was pretty good but now I just use what's included with Windows Vista, which is fine for me right now.The Not So Good: The controls are a bit small so it is sometimes difficult to get my chubby fingers on the right buttons.  Just a minor annoyance though.  The wrist strap that comes with the camera is nice but for a camera whose main feature is Waterproof, they should have included a beefier strap that could cinch up around your wrist.  If I were a to take this camera in deeper water I would want a better strap to ensure it wouldn't come off and sink to the bottom.That's all I have for now.  I've had no problems at all so far and the waterproof features are working well.  Just remember to flush the camera with fresh water after you take it in the pool or ocean and make sure all the seals are intact before you dunk it in any water!
