        A company gift, and I love this great little camera, August 9, 2004
        ByM. R. WONG  - See all my reviews
I got this camera from my company's anniversary draw.  I have been using this for only one week.I actually purchased the Kodak DX7440, which is more expensive and has many more features than this CX7430.  I have compared photos taken from this CX7430 and DX7440, I do not see any difference for most of the photos taken.  Looking at the computer screen, the colors are vivid and true, they are not satuated.  There are lots of details enlarge the photos to their true sizes with photo editor software.However, if you don't know how to do this, don't worry; the Kodak CX7430 comes with a CD which lets you see the photos.  Here are the easy steps:Insert the CD to your computer, install the software.Turn of your camera; connect the USB cable that comes with the camera to both the camera and your computer; then turn on your camera.  The Kodak software automatically detects the photos needed to be transfer and asks if you like to transfer them now; then, you just click "transfer all photos".  That easy!!The fast-speed USB cable makes fast transfer of photos and movies taken with your CX7430.  You can view your photos and moview with the Kodak software with sound if it is movie.The movie feature is a very nice touch since there are times when you really want to capture some great moments in motion.  This camera has TV-quality movie features and captures very good movies in detail and with good sound quality.  I use 256 MP secure digital card to store up to 12 minutes of movies in the highest resolution.Taking pictures is in you control.  If you like to take close shots, be sure to switch it to close capture mode otherwise it won't focus well enough.  You can review the pictures in the viewfinder and enlarge it in the viewfinder and see if it is a good one taken.  If not, you can delete it with the delete button.  It is very easy!  Taking night shots is pretty good too.  The flash is enough to light up a room.  I don't have trouble taking night shots with good results.Now, if you want to email pictuere to friends and relatives, the software lets you do it in this simple manner: type in "from" email address, type in "to" destination email address, select the pictures to be send from the right and click, email them now.  Be sure that you do this while you are online.It also let you email pictures in low resolution for faster transfer (which is only good for viewing), or transfer in original resolution (for if the receiver may want to print the photos as well).I upload photos to Ofoto.com and print 4"x6" or 8"x10" photos.  I also have a printer dock from Kodak and it laminates the prints so that the photos are free from moisture attack and finger prints.  I love these features very much as it makes the pictures truely longer lasting.The only drawbacks (as with all other digital camera) are that the battery does not last long if you use the viewfinder LCD screen very ofter and the movie length is limited by the memory size of your memory card.  That's why I bought the new 256 MB secure digital card.In conclusion, this is a very good camera at an attractive price from Amazon.  I am just lucky that I got it free from my company.  If anyone like to take great photos and like to film movies once in a while, this is it!  It is lighter than a camcorder and smaller so you can carry it around easier, besides it takes much better pictures than many cameras out there including a comparable SONY.  I recommend this great Kodak CX7430.
