        A nice point and shoot, December 24, 2008
        ByJerry Newman  - See all my reviews
Pros: Compact:fits in pocket; Uses standard AA batteries; viewfinder; Image Stabilized; Good sharpness; Ability to control exposure; comfortable in hand; priceCons: Slow flash recycle; battery life may be so-soAs an advanced amateur I wanted a point and shoot camera that I could keep with me that was compact yet allowed me to control the exposure if I wanted to.  My DSLR is just to bulky to carry with me and too expensive to just leave laying around.  This camera meets my needs perfectly as it is compact and is one of the few Canon point and shoots that allows you to control exposure by aperture, shutter speed or manually.  This is handy when in difficult light situations, portraiture, and especially in landscape shooting.  Although the ability to use a histogram (a graph that tells you about the details of exposure) may not be used by many folks in everyday photography, it is available on this camera.  The viewfinder allows you to hold the camera up to your face instead of having use the LCD screen by holding the camera away from you.  This allows you to hold the camera steadier and makes it easier to use the zoom controls.  I find it unbelievable that so few point and shoots have this what I consider to be necessary feature.  The view finder adjusts as you zoom the lens so you can see what you are shooting.When you have too many megapixels in a small camera, you really don't gain anything useful, but you do loose picture quality, especially color quality.  This camera is just about right in that you should be able to make about a 16x20 inch print (or do some cropping)while still have good sharpness and quality.  The picture, compared to the 10 or more megapixel cameras, has bright colors and good sharpness.The shape has a nice feel to it and it fits in my hand nicely.  The controls are easy to get to and the menus are fairly intuitive. Since I carry it in my brief case, I first used it at an office party and the pictures came out great.  The 8X10 group portrait was sharp with good colors and contrast.  Canon makes a great camera and this one is no exception.  What I don't understand is why it is so inexpensive compared with others in its class, yet has so many features.  I strongly recommend it for the person looking for a good point and shoot.Enjoy it and take some good pictures.  
