        best by far for the money, December 15, 2007
        ByDave in Canada (Liverpool, Nova Scotia)  - See all my reviews
Hi,I finally got the K10D (actually got it as an early Xmas present for my wife,but she's nice enough to be willing to share) ;)  We're both novices with SLR's, but willing and eager to learn real photography.  So this review will have more resonance for those who are just getting into the SLR world.In searching for a camera to buy, we looked at the K10D, Nikon D80, and Canon 3D and 5D.  All of these, of course, are perfectly capable of taking fantastic photos.  The main thing that wound up sealing the deal for me (no pun intended) was the price/features ratio.  The weather sealing, anti-shake, dust removal, compatibility with just about any Pentax lens ever made, the dedicated RAW button, the intelligent design....all for a much lower price than its competitors.  People have made a fuss over certain perceived drawbacks.  Some people say the autofocus is slow in poor light.  We tried taking some test photos indoors at night with just two lights on, and it seemed okay to me.  I suppose it may be marginally worse than other cameras in its class, but unless you're a professional, I don't think you'll notice it at all.Also, someone commented on the sound of the shutter.  It's not whisper quiet, but it's certainly not like some sort of jet plane taking off either.  It's a shutter.  All SLR's will have some shutter noise.  If the shutter noise is really a major priority for you, maybe there's a camera with a slightly quieter shutter action, but it seems to me the noise difference is pretty negligible.  I certainly have no problems with it whatsoever.  And if you're really nervous about the noise, go try it out in a store.Which brings me to another point--if you're considering buying an SLR, you MUST--repeat, MUST--go try several out in a store.  Do NOT buy an SLR without holding it in your hands first and playing with it.  This is particularly true for the K10D.  It IS a slightly heavier camera than others in its class.  Not so heavy that most people would be uncomfortable, but I feel that there are a few people who would probably find it heavier than they'd be comfortable with.  My wife and I both have no problems with the weight (and remember too that you'll have a lens on it).  For me, the heaviness is a good indication of how solidly made the K10D is (metal frame, high-quality textured plastic casing).  This thing is built like a tank.To sum up, I can't be happier with our purchase.  If I had to do it all over again, I'd still buy the K10D, in a heartbeat.  For those thinking of buying it, keep in mind that new Pentax cameras, the K20D and K200D, are rumoured to be announced in January...so if you can wait that long, it's possible you might be able to buy the K10D's successor, which by all accounts might be even better than this already-great camera.  However, you absolutely cannot go wrong with the K10D itself.  Absolutely terrific, highly recommended.EDIT: One thing I forgot to mention.  Many editorial reviews you'll find online speak about how this camera is designed for the "advanced amateur", citing things like the lack of "scene modes" and other automated features.  This may scare off some total SLR novices.  It almost scared me off too.  Now that I've tried it out, here's the deal: if you are a novice, the K10D *will take good pictures for you without any effort*.  It has a "Green" mode, which is its fully automated mode.  You point it at a subject, the camera calculates everything, and you press the shutter halfway down briefly to let the autofocus do its job, and then you take the picture.  Couldn't be easier, and the pictures come out fine in most situations. The caveat is this.  If you want to take *brilliant* photos, the kind you dream about taking when you see those travel magazines or nature shows; if you want to take photos that truly take advantage of the full capabilities of this camera, the kind that are razor crisp and vibrantly coloured or look like they were taken by Ansel Adams; if you want to take incredible night photos, or ultra-high-speed action photos..... then you *will* need to learn some basic photography.  That means learning about things like focal length, aperture, ISO settings, depth of field, lenses, etc.  So if you're hoping to get brilliant photos in every situation without any effort, or if you're buying this for people who permanently have their VCR's set to 12:00, this probably is not the right camera to buy.However, if you're willing to learn a little about photography, this camera will be a very rewarding instrument.  In full automatic mode, it's adequate for most tasks and takes a decent picture.  In manual and semi-manual modes, its performance is among the best SLR's out there (I'm still learning....but if you look through the user gallery at PentaxForums, you'll see thousands of examples of what the camera is capable of).
