        I just can't put it down, December 24, 2006
        ByR. Schneir  - See all my reviews
This is my 3rd dSLR and will probably be my last.  I can't see where it can be improved.  I know, all cameras have flaws and can be improved, but this one is so near perfect it is hard to believe.  From the moment I handled it and played with the focus i was hooked.  It locked on focus fast, very fast even in very dim light.  You always (well almost always) knew exactly what was going on and how well the shot would be. Playback of just shot images is good, expecially with the ability to blow it up to 20x to check focus.  So lets look at a few of the cameras important features.1. It has 11 point focusing, 9 of which are cross which means it easily grabs focus on difficult objects.  And the viewfinder shows you what part of the scene is the focus point.  With two adjustment wheels you can easily switch settings.2. shot to shot time is fast and in JPEG you can shoot until you are out of memory without slowing up.3. switch to RAW and back to JPEG without moving your eye from the viewfinder.  And you can control how the button responds, i.e., just one shot or all the rest until you turn it off.4. weatherproofing so that you can keep shooting even when it gets misty5. solidy built, plastic over a stainless steel case.  It will survive most hard knocks.6. In camera shake reduction which means that any lens becomes image stabilized when mounted on the camera7. the ability to set shutter and aperture and have the ISO automatically adjust for the shot8. easily moves from a beginners camera (when in the "green" mode) to a pro camera with almost all the features a pro needs.9. four channel histogram to better evaluate your shots10. long battery life. 300+ on a charge.11. very wide selection of lenses going back to the 1970s that are usable and are image stabilized when used on the camera.12. wireless remote both front and back.There are a lot more very nice features and a few that are not, but nothing that makes my question my purchase even the slightest.  As is so typical, the manual is not the easiest to navigate.  Even after a month there are some features I still haven't gotten comfortible with but am getting there.  I like the backlight for the top LCD and would like the numbers in the viewfinder to be a little bigger or brighter or both.SummaryDuring the 2 + years i have been teaching a digital photography course (Intro to Digital Photography at Emeritus college in Santa Monica, CA) I have owned 3 dSLR and at least 12 other digital cameras.   This one is far superior to anything that I have tried, researched, or finally bought. It is hard to put it down, both figuritively and physically.DoctorJerry
