        Great camera but..., October 3, 2008
        ByF. Yang (Philadelphia, PA)  - See all my reviews
I've owned many digital cameras- the epson 1 MP, kodak dc290 2MP, minolta dimage 7 5MP, canon powershot S3 6MP, and now the pentax K200D.I love this camera, and I enjoy taking pictures with it.  Its a great dSLR and I purchased it mostly because of the value pentax offers for the price(especially the built in shake reduction).Cons:-I am annoyed that there is not a dedicated button for the changing the shooting mode(single, continuous, timer, remote control, auto bracketing).  Everytime I want to use the remote, or the self timer, I have to press the function button, then navigate the menus.  It isn't a big deal, but it adds a second or two to something that should take only 2 seconds to begin with.-this camera does not have an intervalometer.  I was used to taking time lapse photographs with my previous 2 cameras, and I was surprised that this camera does not have this function.  I imagine that an intervalometer can be implemented by software very easily, so I assume that it was left out so that more advanced photographers would pay more for the K20D.Pros:-The shake reduction really works very well.  I've taken 1 second test shots handheld and the blur was reduced dramatically.  The shake stabilization does however emit a high frequency sound compared to the optical stabilization systems used by canon.-The build quality of this camera is top rate.  Most people don't appreciate build quality these days, but if you just pick this thing up and handle it, you'll realize that it is built to last.  Modern electronics usually go obsolete before anyone notices the build quality, but pentax took the bet that some people do notice a difference.  It helps me have a peace of mind to know that the camera is splash proof and dust proof.Photokina 2008 has come and gone.  Nikon and canon both have released dSLRs with video capability.  I bought my camera in june 2008, and now with the current camera marketin october 2008, I would still have chosen the K200d for the price.  I enjoyed the high quality video capabilities of my canon powershot S3 and I hope that when I replace my dSLR in about 5-10 years, pentax will have a competitive dSLR with 1080P video capability.  If price wasn't an issue, I would get the canon 5D mark II with 1080P video, but since money is an issue, I am very very happy with the K200D.For anyone with a budget large enough to buy the K200D or K20D dSLR with a few lenses, the unanimous advice I've found online was to purchase a cheaper dSLR with higher quality lenses.  Lenses will maintain their value over a long period of time because lens technology does not advance as fast as electronics technology.  Some pentax lenses like the 31mm f1.8 prime is considered by many as THE best autofocus lens ever made.  If you want another reason to go for pentax, that would be it- The best pentax prime lenses are also the best lenses that money can buy.
