        A wise upgrade, February 17, 2009
        ByLes Morgan (Rockford, IL United States)  - See all my reviews
I have been using an Olympus 550UZ for the past year and decided to upgrade to a SLR. Researched several, especially Nikon and Canon Rebel Xi types. But when I went to my local camera store, the very experienced salesman suggested the Pentax K200D. When I mentioned that Nikon and Canon seem to be the preferred models, he said, "Ford and Chevy sell more cars than Mercedes, but are you going to buy based on high volume or quality?" So, after well over an hour of looking at the first two brands we looked at the Pentax, and I was soon sold.First I need to tell you what I don't like about the Pentax compared to my Olympus: the loss in zoom power. The 550UZ had an 18X capability, the highest at the time on a high-end point and shoot. While I bought a used zoom for the Pentax, I would have to spend considerably more to get where the Olympus got me. But I can live with this for now.As to the Pentax:1) more metal than the Canon/Nikon, making lens to body contact more secure and solid; less plastic to break while hiking, etc. and which gives you that "cheap" feel due to lack of heft2) uses all older Pentax lenses which saves you money if you have these3) while some consider the lack of live view a drawback (and I have this on the Olympus and consider it a nice feature), I find the Pentax forces me to pay closer attention to what I'm doing in both composition and focusing. I can still make adjustments with the next pic if reviewing the one I just took shows a problem, but I'm finding fewer problems with the increase in the care I take in making each photo.4) the price! Got more bang for the buck with this camera than the others could provide, and other reviews here have well covered the features of this camera that you'd have to spend alot of money for in higher end brands.5) everything about this camera spells out "pro." It feels like a serious camera and also performs like one. Picture quality is excellent. While the Olympus has many features of an SLR (manual focus, adjustments for aperture, ISO, f/stop, etc.), I find I use these features more on the Pentax, and they are easier to use, understand, and keep track of what you are doing. You avoid falling into the "auto" mode rut - why spend hundreds of dollars for an "automatic" camera when you can take much better photos setting things yourself?I could go on, but I think you get the message. The Pentax K200D was a very surprising and pleasant find, and I have no regrets in purchasing it.
