        1030SW is a Great Camera!, June 16, 2008
        ByG. Gunnels  - See all my reviews
After dropping/breaking my previous Olympus camera, I new it was time for a "not so fragile" digital.  We also live on the lake and were always worried about dropping the camera in the water and getting our hands dry before using it.  I don't know how many good shots I missed due to being wet.  Problem solved.  This camera is rugged and can withstand the weather.  If you have been researching this camera, you know it is waterproof to 33' (with underwater snap shot and video modes), freezeproof to -14 degrees, crush proof up to 220 lbs, and shock proof to 6'.  There is no other digital camera that can withstand this type of abuse.  I am extremely happy with this camera.  Others have suggested the scene modes (on the menu) to be an extra step, but I like the way it outlines each mode, so you can have the right mode for the situation.  The camera does great in auto mode and I've found the scene modes to be very helpful.  The under water pictures are very clear and the scene options work well.  My biggest surprise was the clarity on the "fireworks" mode.  It really does great!The only downside is the zoom.  I'm used to 10x optical on my last Olympus while this one has 3.6x.  However, the other features far outweigh the lack of zoom.  You can't expect high optical zoom in a camera the size of a deck of cards.  If you buy this camera, you must get the M+ or H card.  These high speed memory cards allow you to shoot video at 30fps for the entire length of your memory.  Standard XD cards and M cards only allow for 10 second clips.  My 2GB M+ allows for 18 minutes of consecutive video at 30fps.  The XD M+ and H cards are also 1.5 times faster, so the "next shot" delay is shorter.I would recommend this camera to anyone who is active.  Standard digitals are just too fragile.  Throw it in the boat, canoe, or ski pack and do "your thing" without a worry of breaking your camera. 
