        Fantastic consumer camera, July 7, 2008
        ByBrian Shields "Ramza" (Iowa)  - See all my reviews
This is a great camera for the average consumer. Probably one of the better consumer level cameras. If you want anything better, you're going to have to spend more money on a professional camera.I received the camera as a wedding present to replace my 5 year old Kodak Easyshare 4MP camera.I am very pleased with this gift.The video mode is very nice. I like how it will automatically focus to deal with lighting issues.The quality of the video is also very nice. Obviously not as clean and crisp as a digital camcorder, but still very nice for a camera.The images are very, very excellent, as stated above. I love the variety of pre-set modes that come included with the camera. No longer do I have to mess around with the ISO or shutter or lighting settings. The modes automatically do it for you. Though you may need to tweak the settings a little bit to your liking. Though, make sure to change back the settings when you are done with them, otherwise your pictures will look different. If a mode is selected and you turn it off, the next time you turn it on it will be back in the default Auto mode.I also love how the camera plays sounds whenever there's an error or something else happens. THankfully though, you can turn the sounds off if you don't like them.The only tiny nitpick I have about this product is the battery. The battery works quite fine. It has a long life. The only thing is it is Kodak's own proprietary battery. You cannot use AA's or AAA's you already have. You have to use their own Lithium battery. Again, it really isn't a problem, just a tiny nitpick. Thankfully the battery is very long lasting and charges up fast. From an empty batter to full charge is only 90 minutes or so.All in all, this is the best consumer level digital camera I've ever had, and I've had quite a few. It is easy, lightweight, and provides excellent pictures and settings.
