        Pentax K200D with 18-55mm F/3.5-5.6 II Lens kit, May 7, 2008
        ByGregory Topor (NYC USA)  - See all my reviews
I'm an amateur photographer and i have obviously heard about Pentax brand but somehow unlike Canon & Nikon it's not "visible" in commercials (posters etc.)My previous cameras were Canon Digital Rebel XT (350D) and Konica Minolta  Dimage A2 with shake reduction. Just recently i have decided it's time to get a new DSLR since both of them while in perfect working condition got kind of old for me. The new Canon XSI was tempting but somehow i kept searching for something else. Well i have found this K200D which is new in Pentax line. I heva read many, many reviews about this Camera, visited "well known" electronic store here in in NYC to get a "feeling" of this baby. After i have finally saw it and held it live i decided to GO for it and purchased it through amazon since the price difference between local well known store and amazon was quite big ( for the price difference i got original battery grip for this camera + no Tax that i would have to pay at "well known store") Thanks Amazon, You are the best!!! It uses 4 AA type batteries (quite rare) which i love since i can use PawerEx Nimh batteries and get several hundreds of pictures before recharging them. At the price of ~$10 per set of 4, well it's 3-4 times less than batteries that Canon Nikon uses. Pentax K200d is weather sealed, has a shake reduction build into the body of the camera (huge savings on lenses - against Canon's IS series or Nikons VR since none of them has shake reduction built in.) Nice and razor sharp 2.7 inch screen, dust removal system, pretty much all You could ask for at the price much below Canon's new XSI. Camera is amazingly user friendly, all buttons are logically placed, a pure pleasure to own it. It comes with redesigned 18-55mmm f/3.5-5.6 II Lens. Again for the saving against Canon XSI i have also purchased 50-200mmm lens meaning I'm all set for a looong time, until i decide to get more sophisticated...much more expensive DA* series lenses (something like Canon L series) I suggest get it, try it, if you don't like it simply return it but i doubt You will, once You get this camera and take some shots with it. For me...Bye Bye Canon, Nikon,  Konica/Minolta and hello Pentax!!!
