        An all around fantastic camera!, September 14, 2008
        ByFrank L. Morales (Vancouver, WA USA)  - See all my reviews
So allow me to start by saying i'm just your average "joe-user" who enjoys snapping photos while on vacations and out with friends. Recently i owned an Olympus Stylus 810 and was very, very pleased with it. Unfortunately i dropped it damaging the entire lens assembly and it was going to cost $140 to repair. With a week at the beach coming up i didn't have time to research a lot. On a friends recommendation i made this purchase.Now my goals are to have a smaller sized camera that will allow nice point and shoot photography but has some manual (even minimal) controls as i do enjoy photography and if i decide to go further, i'll be familiar with the manual controls and such. So after getting this camera i did a few test runs to get it all working w/ my MacBook Pro laptop. Here's my experience thus far:Install on Windows Vista and Mac OS X Leopard were both absolutely flawless. Software went right in, once connected downloading the images and viewing them was a one click event. The software bundled is actually quite nice. I no longer have iPhoto (thanks Leopard) so i was unsure what to use for basic photo management. Not to worry Canons bundled software, "ZoomBrowserEX" does a fantastic job of that.Now as far as options go i'm by no means skilled in the realm of cameras, however from my limited experience i can say this camera packs quite a large array for such a small price tag. The auto modes work very well, not to mention having the ability to just pop it into "Manual" mode and tweak by hand! All it takes is 20-30min of reading on the internet and you can be messing with the settings and taking some great low light, artistic, etc... photographs. I also found it's quite easy to use single handed. A lot of times on my beach trip i was holding onto a rock to balance myself and only had my right hand available. Switching into say "Macro" mode is very simple. Same goes for things like zoom, flash, etc... overall very user friendly design.Picture quality has been absolutely stunning! I truly did not expect it from a camera under $160. As with most "point and shoot" cameras when upping the ISO level to take dim light shots without a flash it does tend to get grainy. Although this camera does counter balance that a little, and does a good job, it's still noticeable. That's where the "Manual" mode came in for me. Being able to adjust shutter and aperture etc... really allowed me to take some exceptional low light shots that are not grainy at all. So my overall impression is absolutely pleased! For the money i doubt you'd find a better camera with as many features that can produce the quality of photos this can. I was impressed to see how small it is in person and exactly just how well constructed it feels. Also the thing i loved is there's a huge wealth of accessories like extra lenses such as telephoto, macro, lens filters, etc... Amazon has a "kit" that looks like a fantastic deal that comes with most of those things including a tripod. That is definitely going to be my next purchase. So if you're looking for a great camera that can "point and shoot" and has the manual controls if you think you may be interested in getting into photography, this is my recommendation hands down. I posted 11 photos in the "Customer Photos" section. Feel free to check them out to hopefully get an idea of what this camera can do with "default" settings, i was blown away. Lastly as i'm finding out photography is all about your "eye" and knowing enough about your hardware to capture what you "see." I'm not much for taking pictures of people i really enjoy closeups and different angles, so that's what i'm learning to capture with this camera. Hopefully my pictures will be a decent display of what this camera can do. Just remember if you don't like your photos it's probably not the cameras fault! There will never be a one stop solution, but overall this one is fantastic!Hope it helps, Happy picture taking,Frank L. Morales II 
