        Best deal for the price.................., December 7, 2007
        ByAshis Banerjee  - See all my reviews
After using all sorts of point and shoot cameras in the last 5 years, it was time for me to enter the elite world of digital SLRs. And like all I was biased towards a Canon or a Nikon. I almost went for the Canon Rebel Xti when all of a sudden I was drawn towards the very positive reviews about the Pentax K10D on Amazon. Then I did my research on it by visiting numerous photographic review sites. Everyone had a very positive review about it and I finally decided to go for it. Thank God I did that. The camera is truly amazing. Not only it takes amazing pictures but it has loads of features that the Canon/Nikon at the same level lacks. The user interface is also pretty simple. I was blown away by the very first night-shot with it. I could have never achieved that with the so called point and shoots. I understand that dgital photography is an art and I am just starting my learning curve but I am already thrilled about the results that will come out once I will become a Pro :-)Now for some technical Pros and Cons:Pros:1)Picture quality is excellent right out of the box. Yes you may need to twitch a bit to the default JPEG setting if you are fond of very bright and sharp images. But that is a matter of ones taste. The RAWS are at par with any the Canons/Nikons.2)Excellent build quality. It feels so comfortable in the hand even though it is a bit on the heavier side. The body is completely weather-proof which cannot be found on any of the other sub 1000$ digital SLRs.3)Top notch features with body built-in Shake reduction and sensor dust cleansing technology. 4)Excellent noise control till ISO 800. Even ISO 1600 is completely usable. Night photography had never been so simple for me.5)Superb penta-prism viewfinder.6)And ofcourse PRICE. Where can you get such a feature rich camera with the excellent kit lens (18-55 mm) for only around 615 $ (After 100 $ MIR).Cons:1)Occasionally auto-focusing takes some time under low-lights. But I think that is the case with most digital SLRs in the similar price range.2)Out of the box JPEGs may feel a little bit on the softer side but that can be easily fixed with little bit of twitching in the settings. Overall an excellent digital SLR that would appeal both to amateurs as well as to the Pros................One should definitely go for it. 
