        What a great dSLR, August 12, 2007
        ByD. Gallot (Seattle, WA)  - See all my reviews
After long hesitations vs. the EOS 30D and the Nikon D80 which I tested over a WE, I could not be happier with my K10D (Now 1month and ~1k photos in). The build quality is really first class. Functions are clearly laid out and while the K10D does not have any 'beginner' options other than the green mode (focusing more on advanced options - TAv mode is just what the doctor ordered which should on every dSLR, the RAW button is very convenient), menus are very logical, buttons are well positioned and proof being in the pudding, I could get going without much reading of the documentation. The picture quality is on par with the build. While there have been reports of JPEG processor issues, this is a bit unfair as those can be addressed in 3 clicks - for my taste, set the sharpness to +2 and contrast a tad higher, and I would challenge anyone to distinguish any (useful) difference with the RAW output. And otherwise the RAW output is simply outstanding for a camera of this class.Shake Reduction and Dust Removal (already put to use succesfully) are pretty handy. The lens kit is good and better than most of the competition. Since I was in a spending mood, I also added the 50mm f/1.4 (FA mount) which is an outstanding value, the best price/quality ratio I know of. Do yourself a favor, don't think twice and grab it, you won't regret it, it is a stunning mix with the K10D. I could go on with the K10D qualities so let's jump to only drawback IMHO: it does an average job with AWB indoors e.g. compared with my experience with the 30D. Luckily, there are several semi-auto ones which work very well, 3 custom presets and select and the fine tuning is fast and easy. Finally, the Pentax digital lab software is adequate, works under Vista but as expected, it will not replace a Paintshop Photo or CS3, no complaint here: it is included in the box at no extra charge. Note: USB connectivity is excellent, the camera is recognized is a snap and at 8MB/s with a Sandisk Ultra II, downloads are blazing fast.Links to lenses:Pentax SMCP-FA 50mm f/1.4 LensPentax DA 50-200mm f/4-5.6 ED Lens for Pentax and Samsung DSLR CamerasNote: I am looking forward to seeing review of the DA* lenses coming out... And hopefully will need to start saving. 
