        Great tiny little camera, August 11, 2008
        ByH. Cochrane (NY, NY)  - See all my reviews
I got this camera a little over a month ago. I still have a lot to learn. I like to try and play around with buttons and features before reading the manual. I still haven't read a lot of the manual so this is just from experience.Cannons are excellent cameras. The only reason i decided to replace my older cannon was because I am getting married, going to Hawaii and I wanted something a little newer/better for the trip of a lifetime. My old cannon still works fine and i plan on keeping it as a backup. Ok- on to my review.Battery life is excellent. I had the camera for over a month, used it a lot (especially playing around with the new features) and finally just had to charge the battery. I bought a spare battery so i never missed a shot.The flash is great- I seem to always have red eyes in every photo when a flash is used - this one is one of the better red eye reductions. I only had red eyes in about half the shots (which for me is great)There are a ton of different options as to how you can take your photo, (indoor, outdoor, beach, sunrise, color swap, fireworks, pets, kids etc etc) I thought this was neat, but according to my friend who is an artist, this is just a gag they use to sell more features. If you put your camera on "auto" it does all of the same things.I haven't experimented enough to say if this is true or not.I love the size of the screen - its definitely larger viewing then my old cannon however it still has a viewfinder - which i find important when owning a camera - sometimes in the dark, using the big screen is useless, you can't see anything on it, or sometimes when you ask other people to take a picture of you - they are not used to using a digital camera yet- this allows them to use the viewfinder like a regular camera and take a decent photo. Also if you god-forbid drop your camera on vacation and the screen breaks, you have a back up till you get home (i've seen this happen to people)Transferring photos to my iphoto program in my mac is really simple, just plug in and it goes!I have only played around with the video function a bit. I think it seems fine. If i wanted to take really nice videos i would use a video camera, but for an on the spot use- this is a great little video  camera too!Thats all i can think of for now.Cannons never disappoint in my experience!
