        Crisp and Clean!, January 15, 2007
        ByTheodore Christopher (Flint, MI)  - See all my reviews
I bought this camera last summer. I have taken enough pictures to put up a review now. I LOVE THIS CAMERA! Pure and simple, it has met and exceeded my expectations. The pictures it takes are very nice, sharp, focused, and crisp. It has so many features that you can play around with. I have probably only used half of them more than once. It has a very nice LCD display, or you can take pictures through the traditional peep hole. On the view screen it will always tell you, which mode you are in, gives you a nice centering square, and what picture you are on, etc. The zoom on it is awesome, although I haven't used that much to date. You can take close up shots of flowers, insects, etc., and it still get everything just right. Three of my favorite features though are: the option to take video clips, and the fact that you can shoot photographs in black and white or sepia color, which gives your pictures a real antique or historical feel depending on what you are going for. It will even let play around with shooting night picturs, or different landscapes near and far. When you print out the pictures off your computer, if you have any kind of decent printer you will be almost shocked how detailed and crisp the picture is. I would almost swear that it is better than film pictures. I couldn't stop looking at it, because I was so amazed! For a person like me that mainly takes normal snapshots most of the time, I don't know what else I could ask for in a camera! Moreover, you can't go wrong on the price. Is it a little more expensive than other cameras? Sure! However, for the features it has it is well worth it. It isn't exorbinent to begin with. By the way, for you people that like to shop around for the best price like me, I went to 3-4 different stores in my area that had cameras like this one, and the best price I found was here at Amazon. If you buy it, you will love it, end of story. 
