        Pentax K10D a leap ahead...., May 29, 2007
        ByL. Siggel (Heidelberg, Germany)  - See all my reviews
15 years go I bought an analog Pentax P-10 along with a couple of good zoom lenses. The camera took -and still takes- outstanding pictures. Then in the late-90'S I discovered digital photography and did more and more with this medium and less with analog. I looked at the dSLR cameras coming from Pentax but was not convinced that the time to buy one had arrived...until the K10D. As soon as it showed up in the stores at the beginning of 2007 (an unfortunate delay by Pentax) I tried it out and was hooked.  My old autofocus lenses (FA series) worked smoothly, the camera was the perfect size for my large hands and the ergonomy was pretty good.  I received my K10D a few weeks ago and have put several hundred pictures through it on a recent vacation trip.I have found no weaknesses in the camera yet. Given, the stock DA 18-55 lens, which I did not expect to be perfect, distorts slightly at the edges  but is still good for the money. It will take me more time to truly master all the functionality and a thorough reading(s) of the manual is a must.  I am very excited about this camera and the creative opportunities it opens.  It is a major leap ahead for my photography and for Pentax.Nothing is perfect in this world: there are two cons that I have discovered so far:-after the first lens change there was a piece of dust on the CCD and the shake mechanism did not dislodge it (even after multiple tries) and I had to manually remove it (a straightforward task).  I hope that it was the nature of the dust and not the coating or shake mechanism that made it so "sticky".-The low light pictures taken with shake reduction turned on are not good.  Perhaps this was a "pilot error" of a newbie.In summary this camera is more than worth its' (plummeting) price and I look forward to learning all its' fine points over the next few months. Two  thumbs up...particularly for those with older Pentax analog cameras.  I won't be shooting with the old P-10 anymore.
