        Outstanding, February 27, 2008
        ByStormcoder "Stormcoder" (Seattle, Wa United States)  - See all my reviews
The K10D is my first SLR so I took the time to really research various cameras and to get my hands on them. Before buying the camera I read several books on digital photography, read a number of blogs, read [...] and listened to podcasts etc.The reason I chose the K10D was mainly the weather resistance since I live in Washington state. Another reason is that the shake reduction is built into the camera. You'll hear a lot about having image stabilization built into the lens but independent sources are not convinced that one is better than another and there are a LOT of disadvantages to in lens IS. For instance you can't get IS with an old lens. You pay for IS over and over for each lens you buy. I bought a few lens' off ebay. Some are old manual focus and I still get IS with them. You can't get that with Canon or Nikon.You'll see a number of reviews on Amazon complaining about soft images in jpeg. If you take the time to go through the menus you can fix those right up. It's simply the default settings that are the problem and you should be shooting raw anyway. Shooting raw is such an improvement over in camera jpeg. You can easily fix color balance problems and recover shadows or blown highlights. There's no comparison.You'll see some reviews that mention or complain about a loud shutter. Yes the shutter is louder than a point and shoot. That is the nature of SLR's. That mirror coming up and the motor driving the shutter is louder than a point and shoots fake camera sound. I haven't had any problems and I am taking close ups of horses. Horses are skiddish when it comes to strange sounds.Frames per second is also a common complaint. I'm not taking sports photos so I haven't had any issues being limited to three frames/sec. Also with a fast SDHC card the buffer flushes in less than a second even shooting large numbers of raws. So no problems with that. I'm going to test it at a paintball course to see if I have a problem there. I don't expect a problem.I love this camera. I've shot in the rain with running horses. Great camera. As with any DSLR are you need to read the manual and set it up the way that works best for you. 
