        Great camera for both Pros and Amatuers, August 27, 2008
        BytheKfactor "theKfactor" (Chicago, IL)  - See all my reviews
I am an amateur photographer, and till recently I was using a Canon 500N 35mm SLR, which I loved. Its my first DSLR camera, and I am very happy with it. I did a lot of research, and comparisons with Canon and Nikon. Once I decided on Pentax, I had trouble deciding between Pentax K10D and K200D. After a lot of research, I chose K200D, for the following reasons:1. Both offer the same features and functions, but K200D is cheaper.2. The only key differences between the 2 are that K10D has a pentaprism viewfinder, whereas K200D has a pentamirror. This doesnt cause any change to the quality of pics taken. The second is that K10D, being the prosumer camera, has most of its functions adjustable manually without having to go into the menu. In K200D, these must be set in the menu settings. Again, no big deal. Just a convenience.3. K10D is heavier than K200D. For an outdoor person like myself, the weight is an important factor when I am walking on rough and uneven trails for many hrs. With the bag, and camera around your neck, and your friends hurrying you up, you dont want a very heavy camera.4. K200D is a camera released 2 years after K10D. Its most likely that there are improvements in the software, bugs fixed, if any.5. K10D only has manual modes. K200D has both preset modes and manual. I see no harm in having the preset modes, even though I dont intend to use them. Might help when I have little time to setup and shoot.The K200D camera itself is a very beautiful camera, easy to hold and use. It has a robust design, and great performance, under all conditions. ITs even water and dust resistant. The image stabilization function is very useful. The camera has a pretty big image viewer, which shows high and low contrast areas in the image. Useful function.Some usability issues I noticed was that the function button used for selecting ISO, number of frames, etc, turns off the screen as soon as you select. Thats kind of annoying, because, I would like to see the selection I made on the screen, as confirmation.Overall, very impressive camera, and I love it. See my sample images.
