        Great, solid, great pix, flexible, no jaggies, September 8, 2008
        ByN. Erath "nerath" (NJ, USA)  - See all my reviews
If you are considering a DSLR I highly recommend it.I have been using my K200D for 4 months now and love it. I compared several cameras (Nikon D60, Canon EOS XTi, Olympus 520), and then ordered the K200D after reading many online reviews (DPReview, CameraLabs and others).This is my first DSLR, after having used a film SLR (Canon) for many years and digital point and shoot cameras (Kodak and Canon) for the last few.The Pentax feels so much more solid than the other DSLRs in my hands, a piece of real equipment. The camera's features were superior to the Nikon (tho you can never go wrong with Nikon), and the image quality per reviews and my experience has been great. The price point on Amazon made the decision a no-brainer, and I have not been disappointed.The camera operates in any range from point-and-shoot auto everything (including flash) down to full manual, and incorporates many scene modes in addition to the program, shutter priority, aperture priority, and fixed ISO program modes. Settings such as white balance (including custom WB), self timer, continuous shooting and more are rapidly accessed via the function button followed by one of the cursor keys, and there is a switch on the body at the base of the lens to switch to manual focus. Anti-shake is built into the body, keeping lenses simple, reliable and less expensive, a plus over Canon and Nikon. Sensor size is APS-C (a plus over Olympus), and I have read it is the same sensor used in the Nikon D60, which appears to be born out in online reviews.Only thing lacking IMO is a focus assist lamp for low light focusing, and that can be remedied with a Pentax external flash which has the focus assist lamp. Really it has been only in unfairly low light conditions where focus has failed me (dimly lit indoor displays viewed from a moving cart - like some of the dimmest portions of rides in Disney World). If you are bent on live view that is not here either, but realize live view as implemented on DSLRs has many limitations anyway. The viewfinder on the K200D is very good, BTW, and it is a better tool than live view - with the exception perhaps of the occasional shot with the camera held far away from your face, perhaps shooting over a crowd.I have read some comments that the JPGs produced by the K200D at default settings are overly sharp, exhibiting "jaggies" on edges. I have tried a few times to reproduce this to see how changing the JPG quality settings would affect it, but have been unable to see the effect at all. BTW the same article indicated shooting RAW the K200D was fantastic - if you process your photos on the PC and don't mind the extra storage for RAW, then the JPG issue is moot. Added bonus: if you have other Pentax K mount lenses they will work here, and if you have the older screw mount M42 lenses there are K mount adapters available to make them work too. So unlike the Canon FD glass cluttering my closet, your old Pentax lenses are still much more than paper weights. Browse ebay and see how many older Pentax lenses are available for a great price if you can handle manual focus for those special times you need the lens, like for low light. And - unlike Canon or Nikon - Pentax's in-body image stabilization still works with the old lenses! If you have Pentax-A lenses, exposure is still fully auto and only focus is manual - not bad at all.Check Mark Roberts' Pentax Lens Compatibility page at http://www.robertstech.com/compat.htm. For detail on using older fully manual lenses see the article "K100D (Super) Pictorial guide to using manual lenses" at http://forums.dpreview.com/forums/readflat.asp?forum=1036&message=24921509.
