        I love having a compact, on the go, rugged, waterproof camera that can take movies, and print posters.  , October 15, 2008
        ByMs. Deborah S. Eidson "Orb runner" (Austin, Tx)  - See all my reviews
This is my 3rd digital camera and the best one yet.  I love it!  I have had it for 3 months and already dropped it over 6 feet, left it out in the rain and hot sun, banged it around hiking and climbing, shot under water photos, taken spur of the moment action photos, day and night, cloudy and sunny, interior room photos, landscapes, close ups, macro, portrait, panorama, made movies, and made web page pictures, photos of art collection, as well as photographs to hang in an art show.   It is so easy to use, compact, durable, rugged, waterproof and makes great pictures that can be blown up to poster size.  The macro settings are very good, and the wide angle is a plus.  The underwater settings are great for use day and night. The LCD is big and bright and easy to use without glasses, the buttons and menus are laid out and designed in a manner that is intuitive making it very user friendly.  Most of my photography is of paranormal phenomena and at night.  My pictures are very detailed not too much noise or grain.  I have printed up large 13" x 19" photos that are exquisite in detail and color.   I haven't even explored all of the features yet.  One is the built in LCD light, shadow adjustment, shoot and select, and there are many more hidden goodies.When researching cameras, I thought that not having manual control was going to be a compromise.  Wanting a wide angle lens was a priority for me, big and bright LCD, another was ease of operation for spur of the moment photos.  Having many SLR cameras, carting around extra lenses, batteries, flash, and etc., and making sure to have the right setting was time consuming, cumbersome and burdensome, and felt like work.  Put it in your purse, pocket, bathing suit, so easy to carry, turn it on, dial in a scene mode and shoot!  It is so fun and in the moment!  Take as many pictures as you want.  You can make movies to your hearts content.  There is a lot of versatility and room for creativity with this point and shoot.  Having a camera always with me and ready to quickly capture those odd moments is such a delight and I have some amazing photos of lights, orbs, bugs and things that go bump in the night.   
