        Pentax does it again.  Superb camera at an affordable price., September 27, 2007
        ByTabulrasa (Waldport, OR)  - See all my reviews
First, two confessions. 1. I have not compared this camera with its competition. 2. I am not even half-way through exploring the many features this camera has to offer.I used to sell cameras, back when it was necessary to have someone hold the flash powder a safe (not for him) distance away while the photographer stuck his/her head under a big, black cloth.  More seriously, my first Pentax was an H2 (semi-automatic lens diaphragm!) and my last film camera was an LX.  Pentax have the habit of waiting and watching other manufacturers, learning from their mistakes, and then coming late to market with a superior camera.  They did it with the LX, which didn't sell well but which I thought was markedly superior to the Nikon.  Now they have done it again with the K10D which really is a SENSATIONAL piece of equipment.  Once again, they were the last major manufacturer to bring a semi-professional DSLR to market, and once again they have forfeited market share to Nikon and Canon.  (Once upon a time Pentax was the best-selling SLR in the world.)I have had the camera a couple of months.  It is so well designed, and performs so well that I get a thrill every time I use it.  It is bigger than the *1stDS (and has a more sensible name), but I am surprised to find that the added bulk in no way detracts from the camera.  In the abstract, I always prefer a smaller, lighter camera, but Pentax have made such good use of the space available for various controls and read-outs, and the camera is so very well balanced that the size feels perfect.Outstanding features, some of them unique to this camera: Variable ISO, unique to this camera.  All DSLRs enable the user to change the "film speed," but only the K10D lets you give the camera a range of sensitivity, such as ISO 100-400, and the camera will choose the appropriate sensitivity automatically.  The anti-shake device is astonishing.  The first weekend I had the camera, I took it to a fund-raiser where I took pictures of the band with a 200mm lens (=300mm/35mm) by available light, hand held.  I took some at 1/2sec and they were razor sharp.  I could go on and on, but instead I will just say this: Every gismo on the camera works exactly as promised.  Although I have not played with other makes (except the Olympus), I seriously doubt whether the Nikon or the Canon is the equal of the K10D which is, of course, considerably less expensive.One recommendation for those of us who hate using flash.  Buy the 50mm f1.4 lens, a real beauty.  The 50-200mm zoom is also a very nice lens, and the camera feels perfectly balanced with that lens attached.
