        Great Camera, May 10, 2003
        ByLincoln County MT "Focused on pinecones" (Extreme NW Montana)  - See all my reviews
Read the Manual...read the manual...The Manual! I know many don't like to sit down and spend quality time with a manual but with this camera it's worth the effort. Way too many options and not always clear as to what will work and what won't. For example someone mentioned setting the auto-focus to manual. Yes but it isn't possible in auto or A mode..only in User 1,2,or 3 mode. So here the person's advice left out an important detail. Batteries are available quite reasonably if you are willing to shop for them. I've been paying 18 before shipping and will get two more to make it a total of 5 which includes the one with the camera. Pictures are what count! Resolution is so far great. We live where there are Mountains in N.W. Montana almost Canada and if you manual focus you get better resolution than on auto. But either blows the lower digitals away. Take time to make some cheater cards the size of business cards that show your selection modes and settings for User 1,2,&3. (We assign or think of User as not user perse but for usage. Macro's verses scenery manual focusing for scenery over the auto mode etc.) If you need to change one you then have the info handy to reset it later. Also some quick reference cards help remind you of things you might need to do at a later date. We laminate them up and update them when we find our preferences have changed. Manual is often to bulky to carry in our packs or in smaller belt camera cases. Only had this camera since Wed...under a week. I got it for myself to use professionally in macro seed work and scenery both. Can't get it out of the grips of my husbands hands. He has it around his neck constantly. I think he's sleeping with the camera too. I know he'd taken naps with the manual tightly gripped in his hands. I've warned him he's got only a week to decide that it's not his or I will too have to order another. I did get a great deal on this one..under eight hundred with rebate and it came 2 days after ordering. Not every dealer stocks it. A lot of dealers esp. NY area want to bate you and then put it on continuous back order. I got off that routine and was amazed how much I got a USA warranty package. Good luck..it is a very interesting camera. Update the memory to 256 right away. Amazon.com has had great prices on 256 size Compact Flash memory from various vendors. Save around half of buying just one mega sized card by going for four 256 cards. (Saves battery life too.) Also more flexable system to assign various cards for specialized work. Macro seeds/ flowers field / Mountains / Wildlife or general. One can be downloaded and have a spare card to go! If you put in the effort with this camera it'll perform!
