        exactly what I thought it would be, August 11, 2008
        ByK. Williams (Austin, TX)  - See all my reviews
When I first heard that Olympus was making a waterproof digital camera line, I instantly wanted one. I have been an Olymus owner for countless years through several different models. I'm always taking pictures and end up buying waterproof disposable cameras far too often! Months passed and I sort of forgot about it until a friend showed me her 1030 she recently purchased. In all of my research (a ritual for me before buying anything over 100 dollars) I read several reviews that gave the camera great ratings and some that mentioned poor picture quality, difficulty finding settings for taking different types of photos, and faulty waterproof features. I was a little disheartened. Still I figured if my friend had one and loved it than maybe I should give it a try.I've had my 1030 for a little over a month and LOVE this camera! If you have used Olympus digitals before the menu and settings are pretty standard with a few new features. I find them very simple and easy to use. It even does well when just left on the auto setting.As far as picture quality goes, it can be awesome at times and sometimes a little faulted. Mostly the pictures that don't come out great are that way due to my improper use of the camera functions ( I need to take a little time to play with more of the settings), or in water situations a droplet getting on the lens (which is to be expected at times and doesn't really bother me). Being able to have a camera in water is worth a few botched shots, especially when its digital and you can see that there's a problem and fix it right away. The way I figure it, if I wanted the most fantastic and perfect pictures ever I wouldn't be looking for a durable waterproof camera. It is what it says it's going to be, end of story.In reading the manual, I came to find out that this camera cannot be guaranteed waterproof after being immersed in water for over an hour. The people who gave the reviews saying that it was in fact not waterproof all had theirs in water for much longer. One person had it in for over three hours! I find it awesome that it lasted that long! I've been dipping, dunking, splashing, and dropping mine all over the place and it is still as good as new.In short, if you are looking for a durable waterproof camera that can take quality photos of your expeditions, vacations, fun times, and memorable moments, this is the one for you!
