        Quite possibly the best digital camera under $300 (for right now), December 27, 2005
        ByCleaningGuy (Buy At Lowes, PA)  - See all my reviews
Seldom does anyone ever find a product where EVERY single reviewer has given it a positive rating and positive feedback.  That was one of my research criteria that swayed me into purchasing after I narrowing down the field of cameras I was looking at.  My search for a new digital camera started in May 05, when on a trip to London, I was frustrated by my older digital camera's (an Olympus) inability to zoom in tightly on far away objects.  This in spite of the cameras large megapixel capture size, but only a 12x overall zoom (4x optical and 3x digital).  I knew the key to my search was finding a consumer grade camera with a very high optical zoom, which not only lets you zoom in further, but the better the optical lens, the better your photos.The short list included cameras from the usual suspects, Canon, Nikon, and Olympus.  The Kodak Z740 also made that list as it had comparable features, and comparable zoom, to the $450+ competitors.  The one thing lacking in the Kodak, image stabilization, which is probably the one reason that the Kodak is priced quite a bit lower than its nearest competitors.  I decided that image stabilization was not too important to me, and I am glad I made that choice.  Afterall, I already own a tripod, so if composing a very detailed shot that requires the camera to be super steady, I can mount the camera and have all the stabilization I require.  Problem solved.That said, the Kodak Z740 takes beautiful shots.  It allows the user to tailor many settings in order to get things just right, and even in automode, the quality of the output is quite admirable.  The SLR type body means is quite nice also, with the flash positioned directly above the lens and the flash is also pretty decent pop-up variety that does a very good job (unlike other digital cameras).  Other cool features?  The burst shooting modes work well and I am quite pleased with what I was able to achieve while focusing on a moving object in burst mode.Another nice feature is that standard 55mm lenses can be installed on the Z740 body with a lens adaptor.  This again gives the Z740 lots of expandability and customization for the user.Grips?  Lens cover sucks (as mentioned by others), it does not fit as well as it could.  The LCD screen does not seem to provide true color in relation to the actual output of the photo.  My older Olympus displayed colors MUCH better on the LCD.  Like I said for under $300, this is probably the best camera you can purchase.  If you are patient you can find it occasionally at name brand retailers for $240, which is the price I purchased at.
