        Outstanding Camera, May 3, 2005
        BySCRinMemphis (Memphis)  - See all my reviews
Want a camera that is easy to operate, takes great pictures, and as "affordable"? Our family highly recommends this camera.We came into the search with several basic criteria:1) It must be easy to use (no background in FORTRAN or C++ required)2) High quality (5 mpx)3) Fast recovery time4) Easy to move photos to the computer and print5) AA Batteries if possible6) 5-10x zoomI was shocked to see the Z740 met each of these to our satisfaction.It seemed that when we were researching, we'd find a camera that was 5 mpx, took AA's, but had a 5-6 sec recovery. Or another camera would have a 2-3 sec recovery, 5 px, but had a non-standard battery type.We were about to give up and just buy the one that "most" fit our criteria -then a friend recommended the Z740. We've been amazed.You select the picture mode by rotating a dial. Within seconds, you can take a video, rotate the dial, and take a still shot - No searching the menu to put it in video mode - just rotate the dial.Focus is "point and shoot" - a set of brackets resizes to show you what the camera is focusing on and then turn green. Picture review is easy - a single button push puts you in "review" mode - You can then zoom in or out on your picture.Transfer the pictures by simply placing the camera on its docking station / printer, then push a button.The computer software is fairly intuitive, though those who use other photo programs like Adobe Photoshop or Corel Photopaint may find it a bit basic.The little printer prints GREAT photos - but they are expensive (Kodak propriety paper and ink ribbon) - $25 for 40 prints; still, it does a great job of printing "waterproof" prints. To print, you just hit the "print" after you dock the camera, or you can print your photos from the computer to your desktop printer, OR you can send pictures in to a photo developer (local camera shop, Sam's, Costco, etc.) to print only photos you want.My wife does scrapbooking and it is ideal for her. We highly recommend this camera.
