        Great camera, July 10, 2008
        ByLoke  - See all my reviews
After some delay by Amazon who never ship the extra battery which I bought together (Someone must be sleeping on duty!!!) and they took 8 days (instead of 2) for complete delivery with no compensation for delay.  Why should I pay the school fees for Amazon's mistake (lesson)?Fortunately, the camera lives up to its expectation and the experiences is great so far. I have used many different cameras (Sony, Kodak SLR, Fujifilm etc) but needed a ultra-compact for daily job.  First, I would like to highlight some weaknesses:1) Mechanical Noise - whenever the button is pressed during photo taking, the motor starts working and there is some noise of adjustment inside.  It is clearly audible if you are using the viewfinder.  I wonder if it will shorten the lifespan of the camera?2) Tower of light - when you try to take a shot at night with low visibility, you will notice vertical "tower of light" from bright road beam.  Clearly, the ISO or IS cannot coordinate well.3) The shutter lag - if you are taking shots between short intervals with flash, the waiting time may be significant if you are in a rush.4) Weak flash - I simply cannot get a clear photo at night for a subject standing 10m away.  4m is reasonably ok.  On the other hand, apply contrary thinking for battery life conversation5) ISO 1600 - it is pushing to the limit and the noise level is too great to seriously put the photo into archive.  ISO 800 is bad enough while 400 is ok.6) Sensitive Mic - at night, the mic works perfectly but if there is 0.5m tailwind behind, you will hear hurricane during playback.  Of course, I am asking for the moon.7) 32MB - this is the joke for the day but without a memory card, you cannot even store 1 single shot.8) Short battery life - common problem faced by other DSCs.9) Face recognition - the menu describes chasing the faces by pressing the "print" button while depressing the button halfway.  Hey, our fingers are flexible but they are not yoga trained (yet).  On the features, I am impressed (besides the obvious DIS, slim and 8MB stories) with:1) Stitch assist - this is wonderful but i have yet to try out piecing them back via software provided2) Color switch - wonderful to highlight specific subject3) Viewfinder - Yes, many are omitting this feature to cut cost. But this is the only way to make your battery lasts 2 times longer (in the event you forgot to take extra battery).4) Video - Try it.  This is one great reason to buy such ultra compact camera for carrying around.  The video playback is excellent.5) Reasonably priced - I bought at $213 but now it is $208.  Are you waiting for $199?6) Great for ladies....  On accessories, I strongly recommend the following:1) Leather casing to protect knocking and scratches;2) 4GB of memory (format using camera);3) protective cover for the LCD; and4) Photo bank with 80GB for video taking.
