        A590IS - Great Little Camera for the price, September 21, 2008
        ByC. Schwartz (Philadelphia, PA)  - See all my reviews
I just returned from vacation and I took along the Canon A590IS (purchased right before I left). I never really looked at the instruction book -- since this is my third digital camera (I have an older Sony and a much older Nikon). I originally wanted to buy another Nikon because I liked my older Nikon Coolpix, it was so easy to use and took great pictures -- but some poor reviews kept me from buying another Nikon this time. I was swayed into buying the Canon by the good reviews I read. With that said, I am very pleased with my Canon (so far). The photos I took of scenic landscapes came out great. But, this is not the true test of the camera, in my opinion -- since all the digital cameras I have owned did great on landscapes. What I was after was the elimination of those blurry shots I used to take with the older cameras. This is where the image stabilization comes into play. I am very pleased with this aspect of the new camera. I have very few fuzzy photos this time around. Also, I have a one year old grandson who is the target of lots of my photographs. He is part of the reason I decided to buy a new camera with the Image Stabilization feature. With the new Canon I am capturing him in motion with a lot less blur. Although, I do agree with other reviewers on the long delay between shots when the flash is used. To get around this problem, I try to go outdoors for photo sessions with him -- or at least stay near a window with natural light. I will often turn the flash off so it doesn't fire automatically. I took some great night shots in Bar Harbor with the camera while I was on vacation. Also, the macro setting produces wonderfully detailed and clear close-ups.Overall, I am pleased with this purchase. I know I should read more of the instruction book to get the best results and to use more of the camera's many features (I plan to do this). However, I did pretty well without the instructions -- that tells you that this is an "easy to use" camera. If you are looking for a low-priced, high quality little point and shoot camera -- you can't go wrong with this model.   
