        The Pentax for Professionals, November 21, 2007
        ByBrian H. Williams (Manteca, CA United States)  - See all my reviews
I purchased this camera immediately after release. I've been shooting with Pentax cameras since the early 1990's. Admitedly, I was slow to switching to digital, primarily because Pentax took longer than most to come up with a digital SLR. I wanted to hold out because of the amount of money I had invested in the lenses, flash equipment and other accessories. So when they finally came out with one, the *IST D, I bought it. At the time, it was fine for what I needed. But as time moved on I needed a camera that had more professional features. I had to wait again. So long, that I almost sold my entire Pentax gear and was going to move to Sony. Then right before I was ready to sell, they came out with the K10D. And I can confidently say that it was worth the wait. For us professionals who don't shoot Nikon or Canon, we needed a 10 mega pix or higher camera, with faster continuous shutter, anti dust, blur reduction, a more rugged body and of course, one with a great processor. Thankfully Pentax delivered just that. For my type of shooting (swimsuit models and glamour photos) I find that coupled with the battery grip, a large memory card, and the FTZ 540 flash, I find myself completely satisfied with what the camera gives me. The shake reduction is a great feature to have and find myself using my tripod less and less. The focusing is quick and reliable, even in low light (with a high speed lens). Even though the standard flash synchronization speed is 1/180, this camera does have high speed synch with the appropriate flash. The camera does take better photos in the RAW feature. Not as sharp with JPEG, but this is under CRITICAL tests. For what virtually everyone will be shooting, the high quality JPEG, coupled with a great lens, like the DA*50-135mm F2.8, or the film FA*28-70mm lens, the results are spectacular. I find that I like my settings on "Bright" image tone and contrast on 3. It really makes the colors pop. The factory settings tend to be a little soft on the contrast and I prefer hard contrast. While shooting a bikini contest in Spain, I had to shoot in some rain. The rain didn't even bother the weatherproof body. This combined with the weatherproof lenses are pefect for humid counties such as Mexico and the occasional rain you may encounter. The battery lasts for a long time on one charge, but it's best to have the battery grip just to play it safe. The light meter is highly accurate and the custom user features are great. I find myself shooting in manual mode all the time, but knowing that a simple touch of the green button gives you instantly perfectly exposed shots is a nice. It saves me from hunting for the perfect exposure. The biggest advantage is that the Shake Reduction technology is sensor based, not lens. So you can mount any lens you want on the body and the shake reduction will function. This is not the case with Canon or Nikon. So Pentax has the edge on that one. Occasionally, when I've enlarged my images to 200x the normal size, I have found the occasional hot pixel, or dead pixel. It will be a green or red color. Since then, my camera has been serviced by Pentax (a cleaning that I needed after the swimsuit event. All that sand and dust does a number on your gear!) and they have since run a program on the camera that has eliminated this problem. If you are undecided on what brand to go with, I can only tell you to go with a brand you trust and one that you have had a good experience with. If you want the most bang for your buck, the Pentax K10D will deliver what you need and more. It is the most fully featured SLR for under $1,000. You will not get a better deal anywhere. However, if you are a sports photographer, the continuous shutter speed is slower than the Nikon and Canon. It's fast for my needs (3fps) but if you shoot a lot of fast moving subjects, this camera will not be the best choice. But if you want quality, reliability and a wide lens selection, the K10D is just what you need. The camera truly is a tool for photographic artists. In the wide array of choices for an SLR camera, every brand is great. But I can some it up in saying that if you want a tool to bring out the best in your artistic expression, Pentax is the brand to choose. Nikon is for the photojournalist, Canon is for sports photographers, but Pentax is for artists. 
