        Great dSLR, Especially at this price point, June 21, 2008
        ByJ. Griffey (Spring Hill, TN)  - See all my reviews
I just received my k200d today after many weeks of reading online reviews and a couple trips to the camera shops close to my house.  Coming into the dSLR world with no stock in glass from any manufacturer, I was less restricted in my choices and looked at everything from the Pentax I ended up with to the Canons, Nikons, and Sonys I heard everyone else talking about purchasing.  The most important features to me were image quality, build quality, in body stabilization, and AF speed.  I kept hearing others talk about frames per second and live view, but for the images I will be capturing with my camera, these two features were not that important to me.  Out of the box, I could not be happier with my selection, especially considering its current price point.First and foremost, you can tell once you hold it in your hands you are dealing with a camera that has exceptional build quality.  The entry level dSLR's I tried at the camera shops (Canon Rebel Xsi and Nikon d60) felt, well, entry level.  The build quality of k200d compares admirably to the feel of the Canon 40d or Sony a700.  The weather and dust seals also sold me on the k200d as I plan to use it on outdoor weekends in Colorado and the Grand Canyon this summer.  The metal lens mount on the body and the kit lens also showed me the importance Pentax places on build quality.  I'm confident this camera will last for years based strictly on build quality and feel.The image quality has impressed me out of the box as well.  I have taken close to 60 pictures with the camera trying to experience the different settings and learn a little more about dSLRs (I've always used a point and shoot digital camera before today).  With my limited knowledge of photography and the abilities of the k200d, the quality of the images I've been able to capture is outstanding.  The 10 MP and PRIME image processing really do capture a bunch of detail, and the image stabilization seems to keep the noise down even at higher ISO's.  I'm sure as I progress in my knowledge of the camera the images will only become better, and I am anxious to put this camera to use to see what it can do.  The autofocus seems to be quick and accurate.  Something else I liked is the consideration Pentax gives to being back-compatible with older lenses.  Though I didn't have any pre-existing glass, I like knowing that my k200d body is something that can grow with Pentax technology in the future.For those considering their first dSLR, I wouldn't get caught up too much on resolution.  For most of us, 8 to 10 MP is going to be more than enough, and I would imagine around 3 fps is going to be more than we enthusiast need.  I was tempted to purchase a semi-pro body fearing that I was going to want "more" one day in the future.  I can honestly say I am glad I did not spend the extra 500-600 dollars on a semi-prO body for my first dSLR.  The k200d has impressed me from the beginning and I am confident it will be with me in the future, either as my main camera or a great backup to my Pentax k20d.  I paid roughly 660 on Amazon and will get 100 bucks back through a Pentax rebate.  For 560 dollars, anyone would be hard pressed to find as good of an entry-level dSLR as the Pentax k200d.  
