        Great Camera! You won't be dissappointed! :), July 16, 2008
        ByK. Devine (Pennsylvania)  - See all my reviews
I researched this camera heavily before purchasing it. I was even a bit skeptical with its claims of being waterproof, shockproof, etc. But in the end, I decided to give it a shot and I have not been disappointed.This camera lives up to its promise. I tested it underwater and it took very nice pictures! Although, one thing you do need to keep in mind is that for the camera to stay functional, you need to follow the very simple upkeep instructions.Image quality: Absolutely amazing. I bought a 2gb xd for the camera and on 10mp normal resolution you can take about 400 photos. I set my photos at 10mp fine resolution. I really like this feature because on my older camera, I had to convert the image to high-res after it was on the computer.One thing with the image quality that you might need to watch out for: if you are shooting macro or super-macro, you'll probably want to use a tripod. You can get a decent shot without one, but a tripod makes it soo much easier.Another great thing about this camera is the battery. I wasn't sure I was going to like having a battery you had to plug into the wall to charge but its great to not have to keep buying AAs all the time. The battery keeps a charge quite a few hours of fairly heavy use (constant zooming, turning off/on, viewing images, etc.) You can find replacement batteries for fairly cheap too. I found an offbrand battery for $[...] and free shipping on [...].Also, in researching this camera, I found some links to the possibilities of photography with this camera.Photos taken with Olympus 1030sw: [...]Videos taken with Olympus 1030sw:[...]UPDATE: Out of curiousity I've been checking up to see how people have liked this camera, to see how other people have been liking it.I noticed some people have complained about bad picture quality in close up and that is most likely the users fault because of not using macro mode AND a tripod (which I said before).And with the waterproof thing, you want to open the compartments up after you've used it to dab up any water that was sitting on the waterproof seals (Make sure you're away from water at that point... and that you're hands are dry). When I opened the camera up the last time I used it underwater, I noticed some water laying on the top of the battery, which I'm sure was due to the fact the I opened it upside-down. I'm assuming that the water that was being stopped by the seals has shifted from me opening the compartment. At that point, I just carefully dabbed the wetness with a dry paper towel and it was fine. Camera works perfect still. No problems with it that I have seen. Still a 5/5.This camera is very user friendly, you just have to make sure keep it well. Follow the instructions and you'll love it. Enough said.
