        Incredible outdoor camera, June 22, 2008
        ByS. Weise (California)  - See all my reviews
While owning a dSLR for a long time I've been interested in getting a compact camera but never did it. Once my son started swimming I thought how cool it would be to get a compact camera that can take pictures while in the pool... Finding very limited selection I was concerned over the quality of the camera but after receiving it all of my doubts have left me!The camera is not as lightweight as it might seem from the images. It is compact and can be carried in a pocket but it is durable. I have not tested the "shockproof" aspect of the camera but from its construction I assume it lives up to the hype.As for the pictures there are positives and negatives. Any outdoor picture taken has been great - including the underwater photos. The color is good and rich, action shots (taken in the right mode) turn out great and of course the big reason to get this camera, the underwater photos are stunning. Swimming is an all new experience with this camera and its a lot of fun to get this special pictures that you can't get with most cameras! The negative side are indoor pictures. While the pictures are still good and usable for prints there is visible noise in the pictures in many of those pictures - even when using the flash. The camera is usable indoors but it is at its best outdoors.I haven't taken many videos yet. Having a hi-def camcorder I didn't buy this camera for its video feature... Of course, you can take video underwater with this camera which is also fairly unique I just haven't done it yet. Note that in order to get the maximum resolution and FPS for the camera you need to specificly get the Olympus M+ media card. Non-Olympus or non-M+ Olympus cards will restrict the video to 10 seconds at maximum resolution/fps...Everyone that I have shown the camera to, the pictures and then told them the price were amazed at it and have talked about ordering one as well. A great buy to get some very special pictures!
