        Great Camera, December 11, 2002
        By A Customer
This camera takes amazingly detailed pictures and the colors are very true to-life.  I have been taking all of my pictures in FINE mode (the highest quality JPEG but not as high as the RAW mode) and can't imagine anything better.  I have printed out 8x10s on my 3 year old HP 970, and ordered prints through Snapfish.  I have to keep pulling them out to look at them because I can't believe how clear they are.       On my computer screen (17 Sony Trinitron)I can blow up pictures of my 3 year-old daughter to life size with no pixelation.  In fact, they get clearer initially as I zoom in because the picture resolution is greater than the screen resolution.  Nice software suite included which makes it easy to remove red-eyes, crop, etc.  I don't even bother with the red-eye flash mode anymore, just clean it up on the computer.  Plug-and-play with Windows XP is awesome.     I have read other reviews about being unable to use the autofocus indoors which I don't understand. I bought this camera as gift for my wife and have been taking most of my pictures in our basement in very low light conditions over the past two weeks.  If I zoom into a dark corner from 40' away, it might take a few seconds but it always works.  After reading the manual when I first bought it, I did change the autofocus option to Spot from Matrix.  This lets the camera just try to focus on the very center of the viewfinder/subject.  I went outside this evening and took a pictures of a neighbors' Christmas lights approximately 200' from my house and didn't have a problem with the autofocus.   The only problem I see with the autofocus would be with someone who was shooting action photos.  The autofocus does take a second or two to lock in.       After the first day, I haven't even used the LCD.  To me it's much more natural to look through the viewfinder, and I haven't had any problems with it.  The camera fits perfectly in my hands; nice grip.     The only issues I have seen with it so far are relatively minor to me (but they may be a bigger issue to someone else).1.  Short battery life.  You will need at least 2, maybe 3.2.  Save yourself some gas (or postage) and purchase at least 256 MB of memory when you buy the camera.  The card that comes with the camera is useless.  It's pointless to have a 5 MP camera if don't have the memory to store hi-res images.  You can fit about 104 on a 256 MB card in fine mode.3.  Doesn't come with a power adapter.  You may want one.4.  Nikon does not support filters on this camera.  I have traded e-mails with Nikon and the reason they don't is because filters will cause vignetting on most of the range of the 8x zoom.  It does come with lens cap.Overall I am extremely satisfied with this camera.
