        A tale of two cameras, January 20, 2009
        ByM. Hossain (NY USA)  - See all my reviews
In 2008, after seeing the review on cameralabs[...] I really liked the Pentax K200D. The build quality and weatherproofing appealed to me. I was considering the Olympus E-510 along with the K200D and Sony A300 since all these cameras had in body image stabilization. I really liked the dust removal system on the Olympus along with its live view system. But the E-510 had a small viewfinder which I checked out in Circuit City and I didn't enjoy using it. It was very hard to see exactly what I was focusing on through the viewfinder. Also, I checked out the amount of noise dcresource[...] and saw that the Olympus does produce more noise at ISO's higher than 400. At the end of the day, I realized that I can't overcome a small sensor. Also Olympus had only a limited number of lenses available, the pricing of the good ones were pretty expensive. I checked out the build quality of Sony cameras and I found them really appalling. It was made up of cheap plastic and the viewfinder was also pretty small. After considering all these factors, I went with the Pentax platform since the camera offered the best build quality, a good viewfinder, 11 point autofocus, ability to use to AA batteries, and finally the ability to add effects to my pictures right within the camera. Since I am a college student, I did not want to spend a lot of time on Photoshop, hence the ability to process certain RAW and JPEG files right on the camera would have saved me a lot of time.    I got my first K200D in November 2008, I took nearly a thousand pictures within the first 3 weeks. Some of which will be printed in a student calender. I really loved using the camera, I just had to adjust and understand the settings of the camera. Like the review on Cameralabs[...], I had to adjust the exposure by 0.3 to 0.7 EV in most cases to get the correct exposure. It was pretty much predictable and once I tweaked the settings the images came out great. But as the days progressed I started seeing that the autofocus speed declined a bit, it wasn't focusing on the subject as fast it was before. Plus, the camera froze on me once, I had to remove the batteries to make it work again. I felt like returning the camera just to be safe. Another reason for returning was that the price of the K20D was also coming down due to thanksgiving.       After thanksgiving, I got the K20D and I loved using it. It was just the K200D but even better. Everything was faster and nicer, the body, the viewfinder, the grip. The ability to change the metering along with the autofocus without accessing the menu was very convenient. But the sample that I received from Amazon suffered from the banding at high ISO's. Also the camera underexposed a bit more than the K200D. Hence sadly I returned the K20D because I didn't want to be stuck with a defective item after spending so much money.      Last January, I decided to go for the K200D again. My reasoning was that the K20D is an amazing camera, but it has some flaws which needs to be ironed out. Hopefully the K30D will have everything in order. It will provide me with a good upgrade path in the future. I decided to save the money from the price difference between the K200D and K20D and use it to buy a good lens. I decided to buy the Tamron 28-75 SP..... and thanfully, I got a good example. The kit lens with the K200D and K20D is a very good one, in terms of build quality especially. On the K200D, the kit lens works very well since it was designed to accomodate the 14.6 MPs produced by the K20D. Hence the 10MP of the K200D falls well within the capabilities of the kit lens.     But this time around, I noticed something different with the K200D. The camera does not underexpose, in fact the exposure is pretty much spot on. In some cases it actually overexposes, but I think it spot on for taking pictures of family and friends. I can pics of my nieces with the curtains drawn and there is minimal light on them, but the camera let enough light in and the picture seemed like it was taken with the curtains open! This is really convenient since now I don't have to fiddle around the exposure level to attain the perfect exposure. I think Pentax has adjusted the exposure levels with the release of the K2000 and made it more user friendly. I urge anybody interested in buying this camera not to be discouraged by the underexposure issue since it is pretty much a non-issue now.        One thing to consider is the limited buffer during continuous shooting, I don't mind the slow speed. But I really find it frustrating that I have to stop every 4th/5th frame. It takes my chances of catching candid moments with friends or family. Other than that, this is a solid camera which I love using and recommend to anyone.
