        Canon 1100IS is Tops in a compact pocket digital camera, August 9, 2008
        ByRobert McClard "scienceguy2001" (Yuba City , Ca USA)  - See all my reviews
I just returned from Europe and took over 1500 images and videos with the wonderful camera. I have a neck strap and keep the camera handy my my chest pocket. This works so smoothly. When wishing to grab a quick shot I just pull it our and is seconds it is on and ready to take a picture, video, or record audio.     The face detection works well and if the shutter is pressed half way down the face will be highlighted and sometimes enlarged to show you where the focal point is. The exposure will be on the face most of the time so if the back ground is bright you will have a properly exposed face. This works especially will if the person(s) are close to the camera. I have taken some beautifully exposed faces all over Europe under some difficult lighting conditions... back light or total darkness.      The image stabilization really helps in dim lighting like in museums where you might like to take photos of art hanging on the walls. No flash is permitted so the IS really helps. In large churches that are often dimly lit one can rest the camera further on a bench or stable surface for further help with long exposures.      I took and extra battery and swapped it out every 4 days or so to keep the battery always ready for a shot. This worked all but one time when I took about 200 shots and a few videos and ran out of battery.     The Amazon price is one of the lowest I've seen. In Europe they are about 225 to 250 Euro or about 300 to 400 American dollars, so we get a very good deal here.      The 2 Gig memory cards work fine and store a ton of information. I recorded picture tags with the camera to place audio clips with the photos at concerts, family reunions, travel directions and friends voices  telling stores. I just aimed the mike on the front of the camera in the direction I wished to record. It was fun to playback the audio at a later time and relive the moment.     
