        great little camera with all I needed, May 6, 2008
        ByBrenda Pink "snorkelgeek" (Lethbridge, AB, CAN)  - See all my reviews
Having just returned from a trip to Costa Rica and being disappointed with my older Kodak digital I started looking for a new camera.  The problems with the Kodak, which served me well for a number of years, were: didn't zoom enough, LCD screen was awful (I always used the viewfinder), horizon that was always off, battery life was good, but to recharge you had to lug the dock with you.  Another problem was the on/off lever, which, inside my day bag, kept getting turned on by mistake and wasting battery.I looked at the Olympus because my favourite old film SLR was an Olympus manual.  This camera has a 3.6 optical zoom along with a digital zoom that takes it to 18-23X depending on your settings.  The menu is much easier to go through and I like the "idiot proof" sample pics on the menu to tell you exactly what each setting will mean.  There's even sample pics through the viewfinder of the different light settings.  The on/off button is a much better design than the old Kodak.  The flash on/off is very easy.  I also like  snorkeling and thought that having a camera that could serve both above and underwater would mean having to lug one less camera along with me on trips.  I also liked the fact that the recharger was much, much smaller than the Kodak.  I was pleased to discover that it will also take underwater movies. The LCD screen is large and very easily viewed in all conditions.  My first pictures taken with the camera were very pleasing.  I tried a bunch of lighting conditions and the camera did well in all.  The only drawback that I can see is that when you push the camera up to 18-23X the pictures get a bit grainy, but that happens with all other cameras that I've used and is to be somewhat expected.   The menu has such useful settings as: "through glass", indoor, night, candle, etc. For those who like to do top notch HD zooms, this is not the camera for you and why would you be looking at this anyway.  For those who like a camera that will go anywhere with you and do most of the stuff a much larger camera does, this is a great buy
