        Sure Beats the Panasonic I Dropped Down a Cliff, January 9, 2009
        ByDavid Kelley "tornveil" (Seattle, WA USA)  - See all my reviews
I had a Panasonic 6MP 6X zoom with no viewfinder. No viewfinder was a pain outdoors. The LCD went through batteries. I think that the 6MP exceeded the resolution of the lens optics. The lens had some dirt in it which showed up in bright pictures when the iris stopped down some. I was not so sorrowful that the wrist strap was not really around my wrist when I reached out to shoot down the cliff. I recovered what was important: 2GB SD card, so I lost no photos except those I was unable to take later for the lack of a camera.This Canon is only 3X optical zoom, though I think digital zoom (12X total) provides better quality than using Photoshop to do an equivalent digital zoom of a 3X optical shot. The Canon integrates the optical and digital zooms nicely. The Canon is engineered by a camera company. I trust Canon more for that than Panasonic, especially optics.The Canon is really small. I carry it in my pocket all the time. It takes far more pictures on a single charge than the Panasonic ever did on a fresh set of alkyline AAs. The Canon has fewer special modes; e.g., "baby" mode, which is miss a bit. (I'm a relatively new grandfather.) It has a few modes the Panaconic didn't have. These modes are a bit gimicky, but there are times they might be useful.Offline, the Canon has a red-eye reduction function. Being on a camera, it is a bit awkward to use, but it does a very nice job. I prefer the job it does to Photoshop Elements.The camera knows which way is up. This is nice until I purposefully take a picture upside down. I try turning the camera over to view it, but the camera flips it so it is still upside down. However, when I pull the pictures into my PC I can do anything I want with which way is up.The ZoomEX Browser software for pulling pictures from the camera is easy to use. With the Panasonic, I always used WIndows Explorer. With this I prefer Canon's software. One glitch: a process is left running that keeps me from releasing the SD card from my PC. I use Task Manager to murder the process tree, then I can "Safely Remove Hardware". I am probably not exiting the ZoomEX Browser correctly or something. I haven't check the web for solutions to this problem yet.Picture quality is excellent. Exposure is good. Disabling the flash in automatic mode is easy. Price was very good. Turn on/off speed is good. Movie mode is excellent. Sure beats the old VHS camcorder I had years ago. Twice the linear resolution makes for crisp, clear pictures on a standard TV. I am disapointed that zoom is disabled while recording. It doesn't use standard batteries, but a single charge goes a long ways. I bought a second battery (pricey, but cheaper than buying batteries in the long run) so I won't get caught without backup. Macro mode works very well.
