        Fantastic! Durable point & shoot.  Great pictures!, July 26, 2008
        ByJanna Hinchman "FairTax supporter!" (El Segundo, CA, USA)  - See all my reviews
Important to know info: BUY memory cards.  It doesn't come with them and you can only take about 5 or 6 pics without it.  I didn't know this so I had to go to Best Buy to play with my new toy the day it arrived.  oops.  Get the M+ cards (rather than "M") to enjoy all the features and faster speed!.I purchased this camera because of the water proof and shockproof features. From the web research, I expected it to be bigger, so the compact size is a pleasant bonus! Thus far it is performing as advertised.  I have 3 children, ages 13, 3, 2.  I have let all of them play with this camera in the house and in the pool.  It takes great pictures under water and it is perfectly OK after being dropped by a toddler! My husband cringed when I gave my new camera to our 3 year old, but I said "It's shockproof up to 6 feet and she's only 3 feet tall.  The most she will drop it is probably 2 feet".  He cringed even more when she did finally drop it on a tile floor.  I checked it out.  Everything is fine!  We are taking this new camera/memory saver on every future family vacation, starting with a trip to the Grandparents in TN next week.  Can't wait to see those lake pictures ... both above and below water!!.Of course every camera could have improvements, so I will include my wish list, but this in no way should take away from what a great little camera this is. There are 2 things I would like to see:1. I would like more/better zoom.  2. I would like a faster recovery time between pictures, so I can take a bunch quickly and then later delete whichever ones aren't good.  I don't like that it thinks for a second or two about each picture, displays it for me, and then gets ready for the next shot.  For this issue, I can either shoot video and make pix, or there is a quick shoot feature where you get to shoot a few and then delete.  Maybe I haven't figured that one out yet, it seems weird to me..Like I said, don't let my extra wish list deter you from getting this camera.  It's my attempt at "fair and balanced" reporting.  This is a fantastic little camera and I highly recommend it.  I have had lots of fun with it.
