        Great rig for a serious photographer, May 28, 2007
        ByE. Lowe (Austin, Texas)  - See all my reviews
I have been a Pentax user for awhile, starting with the ZX-L film body. For the most part I have mostly good results to report upgrading to the K10D:- The camera's meter works very well. In the vast majority of scenarios where the older film camera's meter would have under or over exposed, the meter is right on.- The exposure latitude is great. I tested it at about 11 stops in RAW mode, about 2 1/2 stops more than what you can see. You will need a good raw processor like Adobe Lightroom to take advantage of this, but it allows you to pull details from contrasty scenes like woods in daylight which would have 'blocked up' on film.- Higher ISO sensitivity and longer shots have a very low noise level. The noise level is the same or better than a good 35mm pro film. For long exposures (1 sec or longer) the noise filter is flawless -- my long exposures are better than film, since the digital camera has no reciprocity effect like film does. In addition, in 2 second delay mode the camera has auto mirror lock-up, which my older film body lacked, a feature I am very fond of!- The SR (shake reduction) is good for 2-3 stops, as advertised. With a monopod I can take 1 second exposures at 70mm with no visible camera shake with SR on. With SR off, the image is so blurry it is unusable.- DNG format and AdobeRGB colorspace (set in custom menu) are ideal for working in Lightroom and Photoshop, no raw converter needed.- My 28-70 f/2.8, 70-300 f/4-5.6, and 50mm f/1.4 FA lenses all work very well with the K10D.A few downsides I have noticed:- Battery life is dreadful with the built-in flash. If you use the flash alot, you will get only about 100 exposures before it's dead. Buy an extra battery, and/or use a hot-shoe extra flash (I use the 360FGZ and it is *great*). Without the built-in flash, I have shot 150 pictures with less than 50% battery drain though.- Focusing in low light doesn't work well. I have to use a supplementary light (like a pocket flashlight, which I carry in my bag, or the built-in flash) to use auto-focus when I want to shoot at f/2 or f/1.4 in low light using my 50mm lens.- The biggest drawback is lack of TTL metering. My 360FGZ works great in P-TTL mode, but my macro ring light has to be shot as a manual flash, and I get over-exposed shots using a (cheap, non-P-TTL) slave flash that would have been perfect on the ZX-L, requiring careful selection of flash compensation.Still, for what I do I have to give this camera 5 stars, because it exceeded my expectations. If I buy a Nikon in the future it will be to get the Nikkor 70-200 f/2.8 VR lens, not because anything is lacking in my Pentax K10D camera!
