        Excellent entry level DSLR, June 16, 2008
        ByM Kumar  - See all my reviews
I have been using this camera for the past 3 months. My experience has been positive so far. Why K200D?* Built like a tank - No other entry level DSLR has this build quality* Weather Resistant - No other entry level DSLR has weather seals. You can take pictures outside in a dusty and rainy environment with a K200D and a DA* lens. Can you do this with a Nikon/Canon entry level camera?* Image stabilization  Shake Reduction  gives you two stop advantage. No more blurred images. * AA batteries  no need to carry charger, adapter etc  - around 800 images with flash* Built in Wireless Flash* Shoots RAW and JPEG simultaneously* Dust Removal and detection facilities* User selectable noise reduction levels* Good Ergonomics* Accurate color reproduction. Excellent IQ upto IS0 800.  * Additional features like Exposure Bracketing, DOF preview, lens compatibility, spot metering etc.Unless you shoot sports action, you cannot go wrong with the PENTAX system. Unlike some other systems, PENTAX autofocus system never locks focus when the subject is not in focus. However, the focus lock is not lightning fast in low light ( i.e. after sunset) and it takes an extra second or two to lock focus. This is not the fault of this camera but PENTAX is yet to introduce a ring type ultrasonic focus lens. However, when it locks focus, it means the subject is in focus. No doubt about it.I bought this camera because of the excellent and comparatively cheaper primes available from PENTAX.  Ever heard about FA 31 limited lens? ( one of the 3 best autofocus lens in the world ever!) The primes are high quality and competes with Leica and Zeiss primes. They are very much affordable and are optimized for APS-C cameras. Most of the Nikon and Canon primes are full frame and the crop factor makes them not attractive. An 105mm Nikon prime lens is approximately 158 mm in APS-C. A PENTAX 70mm prime gives you the 105mm field of view on K200D which is the preferred focal length for portraits and it costs only [...]$. The Da 70mm lens is not made of plastic like the Canon 85mm f/1.8 and 100mm f/2 but it is an all metal lens which is again built like a tank. If you want a PENTAX quality prime lens from Canon,  you have to go for the CANON L prime lenses which are always above $1000. Visit [...] to know the list of all available lenses from Pentax . Look for lenses designated as "Limited".What about zoom lenses? You have weather sealed ultrasonic silent motor lenses like DA* 50-135 and DA* 16-50. They are cheaper compared to other systems. Also you have cheaper consumer build quality lenses like DA 55-300mm, DA 12-24, DA 16-45 etc.One other advantage of the PENTAX lenses is that they have special coating which controls flare very well. This is not the case with all other manufacturers. Let me reiterate: Only in PENTAX system, you can get professional quality lenses at affordable prices. No other manufacturer produces such high quality lenses that are so compact in size. Go for PENTAX.Update: Some dust got inside the camera while changing lenses. I was little worried as it showed up in the Dust Alert analysis. I repeated the dust removal option (it shakes the sensor, I believe, to remove the stubborn dust particles) multiple times.  Now it is 100% clean. 
