        This deserves 4 1/2 stars, not quite 5, December 8, 2008
        By***** "dubolex" (Fairfax, Virginia United States)  - See all my reviews
I think Amazon needs to change to a 10 point rating system. I think giving this item 4 stars is not doing it justice but I can't give it 5 unless I thought it was perfect. I bought this after sampling numerous cameras in this size class. It's small enough to fit into a shirt pocket comfortably. I chose the gold color and it looks sweet. The controls and settings are not the most intuitive but not impossible either. The 2 1/2" screen is ok considering how small the rest of the camera is. I guess I would be real picky asking for 3 inches. The preview image that you get on the LCD is grainy but don't be discouraged. It's not the final result when the picture is taken. I must note that this camera also has a viewfinder in case you don't want to use the LCD screen. One of my main criteria was ISO settings and shooting pictures in low light. Indoors, this camera does an amazing job. All you have to do is set it to AUTO and it will give your exposures plenty of light around the subject. It's also smart enough to know when you are outside. Although, if you are not satisfied with the AUTO flash outside, then you can adjust the ISO manually. There is some noise with that but who cares?As long as you shoot amazing pictures and this camera delivers. Another requirement when choosing a digi was the video quality. I've made a few videos and I'm impressed. This is actually better than some digital camcorders or at least on the same level. And to get that level in such a small package is remarkable. You can have fun with features like color accent or color swap. There is even time lapse video on here!Another neat photography feature is panorama. I have to say that instead of in-camera photo stitching, you have to wait until you load the images on your pc and use the included software. That's a bummer but it's something I can overlook considering what else this cam brings. That's one of my very few negatives along with the fact that you can't re-charge the battery without removing it from the camera. For the price, you get a lot of bang for your buck. Strongly recommend for the casual user who wants to take quick pics of people and landscapes. And when I say quick, I mean quick. This camera is ready to take a picture 1 second after you turn it on.
