        Excellent, ultra compact, point & shoot camera! , July 7, 2008
        ByPeppermintPatti "Gina" (N.E. MS  USA)  - See all my reviews
 If you are looking for a user friendly, easy to carry, point & shoot right out of the box-with the option to learn the more advanced features later, this is the camera for you! It is small enough to carry in your pocket but has enough weight to prove it's quality, comes with a wrist strap to prevent dropping it, a memory card, battery with a charger, cables & software to get you hooked up to a computer & a photo printer, and manuals that give clear, precise instructions on how to quick start and then later delve deeper into the capabilities of this exceptional little wonder! Need more info?  Read "solid ultra compact camera" by Garrett Lowenthal. No one could have covered it better-his review was by far the most helpful. I love it-don't know how I ever did without it! *****Update: 9/15/08...Been using this camera long enough now to give more details! Extremely long battery life! But you may want to keep a backup charged for longer photo shoots. Depending on the size of your memory card, you can record like a camcorder! It will keep recording until the memory card is full! I've read that a 4gb memory card will hold two solid hours of video(?). Again, keep a spare handy because you will get carried away shooting everything everywhere! Printing pictures is super easy! If you don't have a photo printer or a computer with a quality printer, take it to any of the local Wal-marts, Walgreens, etc.. Pull the mem card from the camera, insert into the kiosk, make your choices. Burn your pics to a disk (save them) so you can reuse that mem card, if you like. It's that easy! Print out immediately or submit a three day order for .15 cent prints! These services also allow you to alter your photos before printing (borders, cropping, size, zoom in and eliminate extraneous background clutter-result is georgeous thanks to 8 megapixels, color or redeye correction that didn't happen during shooting-rare but it can happen, etc.). Point, shoot, keep or trash it and shoot again! Or, fill up your card and sort out the good ones later! It is so easy! I'm going to buy another one for my son! FYI: Consumer Reports, October 2008 (pg 33) rates the Canon Powershot SD 1100IS in the top three best subcompact cameras!   Will keep updating! Happy shopping! 
