        I absolutely love it! Friend used mine in Cabo, bought one on his return., December 16, 2008
        ByJohn Sanders "DiveZen" (Seattle, WA USA)  - See all my reviews
This is a great pocket camera. period. it shoots fabulous pictures, great video... oh and it never leaves your pocket so it's always available. That was my biggest complaint with my other fancier cameras. I'd bring this expensive, cool camera on vacation and then because i was going to the beach I'd leave it in the hotel... or bring it with and have a friend "watch" it while we went in the ocean. I hated that.Now I stick the camera in my pocket, we went horseback riding, swimming in the pool (took underwater shots), lounging on the beach, kayaking, deep sea fishing, and swimming in the ocean (took underwater and in/out of water shots there too). Yeah!I have shots of all of that from our adventures so far... not to mention great distance shots from a hike into the snow and a Mirror Lake.I can't say enough great things.Is it a $1000 Digital SLR with $1000 interchangeable lenses? Nope. One of my great friends is a pro photographer, so I occasionally get to play with her toys and her glass... amazing. But convenience and always having it available for shots is more important to me. Will I buy an expensive, awesome Digital SLR... probably...but I still won't get rid of my waterproof great pocket shooter.I'd recommend getting two of the xD cards (I have 2x2Gig). I went for the Olympus brand so I could use their panoramic feature... however to date I've never used it. I use Google Picasa or Windows Live Photo Gallery to do my panoramic photo collage creations with no special hardware. I also bought two batteries for convenience... although this thing is incredible on batteries (IMHO).One last thing. I'm a scuba diver too. I bought the Olympus case that fits this camera for diving and took it down to Mexico. Worked like a charm and a friend just borrowed it for their trip to Kona. Goes down to 140'. (Note: as will all diving camera setups, good maintenance, condensation packs, and a final check on that O ring should keep you out of trouble.)Enjoy!
