        Fantastic Camera, December 29, 2008
        ByWayne (Arizona)  - See all my reviews
Canon PowerShot A590IS 8MP Digital Camera with 4x Optical Image Stabilized ZoomMy one Daughter lost her camera, so I gave her my two year old Kodak point and shoot camera and hit the Internet to find me a replacement for that one. After spending several hours looking and reading reviews, I picked the Cannon A590IS. The things I liked about the camera when I first saw it, was the shape. I don't like those real small flat ones. They are great to stick in your shirt pocket, but are hard to hold steady and shoot. This one had a nice handle like grip where the batteries fit in and you can hold it and shoot with one  hand if you want to. It's still small enough to fit into a coat pocket, purse and pants pocket. It had great reviews and the price was great.I sure wasn't disappointed when I got it and got a chance to use it. It was everything people were saying it was. Easy to figure out, took great pictures and had a good zoom.I wanted a camera that used AA batteries, which you can find anywhere if your batteries die on you. The Cannon had that too. But it had something my Kodak didn't have and that was a view finder. Not many cameras have a view finder anymore. It really comes in handy when the sun is bright and washes out your LCD screen.But I soon discovered another great use for it. The view finder can stretch the life of your batteries a long way. On many shots, I turn the screen off and shoot using the view finder. The screen will light up for a second or two and show me what I shot and turn off again. That really is a great battery saver if used and would take care of most of the complaints about this camera. There are so many features on this camera, both automatic and adjustable that it's hard to believe it sells for so little. It should satisfy the needs of about anyone, novice or skilled camera user.A good safety feature you can use, is when putting your camera away, put the switch in (review) mode and not in (shoot)mode. That way if it accidentally gets turned on, the lens won't open up and push against what ever you put it in with and mess up the lens.I liked this camera so much, I just ordered two more. One for my other Daughter and one for my Son. They should get them this week and I'm sure they will love it as much as I do.If your looking for a good point and shoot camera with most of the bells and whistles on it and small enough to put in your pocket, but big enough to get a good grip on it, you can't go wrong with this camera. You will love this Cannon.
