        Fun little camera, January 12, 2009
        ByJack (Boston, MA)  - See all my reviews
After tinkering with this camera in some detail, here is what I found:Image Stablization: Quite effective. I have had very few blurry pictures, even though I was constantly taking pictures with shutter speed of 1/8 ~ 1/15.Battery: The "low battery" warning comes up prematurely sometimes, and it is quite annoying. Once I figure out that I can easily take 400+ photos on a set of Eneloop (or Rayovac Hybrid), I have learned to simply ignore the warning. I love the fact that it uses AA batteries, one less device I have to remember to charge.Auto Mode: If you allow the camera to decide all the settings for you, you should be able to take decent pictures consistently. Good lighting produces good pictures, bad lighting produces bland pictures, on par with most other entry level cameras. Noise level at ISO 320 is not noticeable, unless you are looking for it.Shutter/Aperture Priority Mode: Disappointing. The EV setting does not work properly when the flash is activated. And I use flash a lot in non-auto mode.Manual Mode: Great feature. You can combine different levels of flash with proper ISO and shutter speed to get great result. Instead of bland, washed-out indoor pictures, I was able to obtain good vibrant photos. Once you get the hang of it, you are usually adjusting between flash level and shutter speed, so it's not very complex to use.Size: It's a little too thick to fit in pants pocket, but should fit in some coat pocket fine. Its shape provides good grip, allowing better shot taking.Flash: The recycle time is fast enough for me. I suspect it's due to Eneloop.Reboot: The camera sometimes slows down after extended use. This is easily corrected by shutting it off, then turning it back on.Overall this camera is very fun to play with. The manaul adjustments allow you to do so much more than a regular point and shoot camera. However, when you bring your A590 to the company party, you would wish some of these features are available in the auto mode too. As a practical camera: 4.5 stars. As a toy: 5 stars.
