        User-friendly and Perfect for the Digital Camera Novice, July 20, 2008
        ByEdward O'Donnell Jr. (East Providence, RI United States)  - See all my reviews
This is the first digital camera I have owned. I purchased it a few days before a trip to California, which means I didn't have all that much time to get acquainted with the device.I had absolutely no problems learning how to use the camera and taking good pictures with it. To my amateurish eyes, the pictures came out just fine and the camera was quite easy to use. There are a variety of settings you can use depending on what is being photographed and when: People, landscapes, action shots, nighttime shots, the "easy mode" etc. These are all nicely indicated using a graphic that appears on the LCD screen. For example, the portrait feature is indicated by a small graphic of a person's profile. There's also a video mode that can be fun.The camera is pretty compact--not as small as some models out there, but I had no problems. One feature the camera includes that I think is quite important is a view finder in addition to the LCD screen. In bright sunlight it is difficult to take a photo using the LCD screen. I found myself using the viewfinder most of the time. I would caution anyone purchasing a camera with only an LCD screen. This was actually pointed out to me by a colleague who is experienced with digital cameras.  The camera also comes equipped with "image stabilizer" and  "face recognition" features; from what I understand, these are two important features you should look for in a digital camera.For basic photography (vacation pictures, family events, etc.) this is a fine camera at a reasonable price. Part of my research consisted of using Consumer Reports, and the magazine gave Canon products (not sure if this particular model was reviewed) a "Best Buy " rating.About the only caveat I have is that the program included to load your picture on your computer is not particularly user-friendly. I wound up using iPhotos instead since I have a Mac. But on the other hand, I had no experience with loading photos on a computer--what seemed a bit clunky to me might be just fine for someone else. 
