        Great camera!  Super features!  Reasonable price!, October 19, 2008
        ByR. D. Williams "TeacherMan"  - See all my reviews
I consider myself an intermediate photographer.  I'm not a pro but love taking high quality pictures.  So far, my PowerShot A590IS has exceeded my expectations!Canon PowerShot A590IS 8MP Digital Camera with 4x Optical Image Stabilized ZoomI've only had my Canon A590IS for a few months, but I love it!  The pictures are great and it's easy to use.  To me this seems like a great camera for the price.  It's my first Canon, and it's superior to the pocket digitals that I've owned previously.  The Canon brand name, the features, and the price sold me on the PowerShot A590IS.  Specifically, I wanted a high-quality name brand camera, relatively small digital camera, for less than $200- that had 8.0 megapixels resolution, a large LCD monitor screen, at least a 4x optical zoom, a viewfinder for sunny days, video with sound capability, that uses SD memory cards.  The A590IS includes all of these, plus some additional features that I'm enjoying.  When you turn the camera sideways for a vertically oriented picture, the camera adjusts so that you don't have to rotate the downloaded images, later.  Also, the processor is the same that Canon uses in their high-end digital SLR professional quality cameras.  There's also an optical image stabilization feature that reduces the number of blurry images as a result of photographer movement.[...]My only concern is that the LCD Monitor Screen is virtually flush with (even with) the camera's body, in other words, the screen isn't protected from scratches and damage.  To help protect the LCD monitor screen, I've added an inexpensive plastic collapsible digital camera LCD monitor shade.  There are numerous brands on the market.  I'm using an eFilm DU 2.5"-M made by delkin.com.  It cost less than $10-, fits well, gives great shading of the LCD for sunny days outside.  It includes a thin clear plastic screen protector which does not adhere to the LCD monitor screen, but sits about 1/16" above the LCD.  This attached device adds only about 1/4" of thickness to the rear of the camera, when collapsed.  In addition, the LCD Monitor pop-up cover has a quick-removal feature.I read a good recommendation in another review link regarding Canon cameras.  That's to store the camera in the picture "review" mode (used for viewing pictures already taken)as opposed to "shoot" mode (used for taking still pictures and video).  That way if the power on/off button is accidentally pressed, the lens mechanism won't be activated in a camera case, purse, or pocket--potentially damaging the mechanical optical lens mechanism.  For me, a service contract makes sense.  In my case I bought my Canon A590IS and 1-year service contract from another online source.  The price now, however, is less at Amazon.com with a 2-year service contract, than I paid, elsewhere.I'm pleased with the image quality, the camera's ease of use, the features, the price, and the look and feel of the A590IS.  Hands down, I'm enjoying it more than any camera, digital or film, that I've owned previously.  I hope others find this review helpful.  
