        Remarkable Camera for the Money, November 6, 2008
        ByYazdikhast  - See all my reviews
I read a lot of reviews while selecting this camera.  Kudos to RLSd, F. Gillett,  Molly P., among others.  Forget the stars - it was their accurate realistic detail that really helped.  Lacking their expertise, I'll confine myself to a few areas that concerned me until I actually used the A590IS.  This was partly due to other reviews that weren't as well done.First is the size and "chunkiness" issue.  It's chunkier than some of its peers, but only a bit.  It slides into a jacket or jeans pocket very nicely.  In exchange for the chunkiness you get a camera you can grip securely and hold steady.  You also get a shape you are far less likely to drop, even holding it in one hand while scrambling over the rocks.  Finally, you get a view finder, not just a screen.  During a recent two weeks in Greece, that was a Godsend, as the bright Aegean sun totally wiped out the electronic image.Second there is the battery issue.  I read complaints from folks who said the camera ate batteries and died after too few shots.  I'm not sure what was going on there, but you need to research the batteries the way you did your camera.  The new Energizer lithium batteries got off about 400 shots, half with flash, before I had to replace them.  And because it was a new toy, I was constantly using the camera to show my shots to my wife, which burned still more power.  Hard to beat that.  Are they the right choice for everyone?  Maybe not.  They are not rechargeable, so there's an ecological price to pay.  Around the house I may switch to something greener, but for overseas trips, I'll stick with them.Another issue is the lag time between flash shots.  Let's be real.  If you want instant turn-around time, you shouldn't be looking at a $130 camera that uses a pair of AAs.  If you want a camera for fast-breaking sports and photo-journalism, don't get an A590IS. That said, I didn't think it took insufferably long.  I can't think of any shots I failed to get due to recycle time.Some folks had tales of woe about taking all these wonderful shots, only to have them disappear from the chip.  When the camera arrives, read the little book, esp. the part on formatting your chip.  That should prevent such sorrow from striking.Incidentally, one little discussed but really cool feature is the zoom capability when examining photos already in the can.  You can zoom in to an incredible degree and find things in pix you've already taken that you didn't even know was there.  (Honestly, honey, I had no idea she was topless.)  I was stunned by the clarity.Do I have any complaints? A few.  The manual is good but it has one of the worst indexes I've ever seen.  Don't assume it omits a topic just because it isn't in the index.  Flip through the pages and you'll find what you need.  On occasion, I was disappointed in the inability of the camera to handle sharp lighting contrasts.  Granted, Greek sunlight and shadow can create some extreme challenges, but it's still a limiting factor.  The flash is useful but don't ask too much of it.  You have to be quite close to your subject, esp. at night.  If you are outdoors, it's easy to be too far away without realizing it.I guess that's about it.  My bottom line is that I love this camera and I'm pleased and amazed with the shots I brought back from my recent trip.  It's a great transitional camera for someone like myself who finally decided to leave his old 35mm gear and give in to digital.  The auto setting is really good, but it permits manual control as well.  Am still experimenting with that but am encouraged by what I see.  I would buy this camera again in a heartbeat.
