        Impressed With The A590, September 10, 2008
        ByTrojan Jon "Trojan Jon" (Los Angeles, CA)  - See all my reviews
My first digital camera was a Fuji MX1200 back in 1999 (1.3 MegaPixel) for $219.  In 2002 I bought an Olympus C-3040 for $540.  I like the Olympus very much and it takes great photos, but the SmartMedia 128MB maximum began to wear on me.I bought the A590 after doing A LOT of research.  I was originally going to buy one of the more compact Olympus or Nikon models, but I really wasn't too thrilled about the idea of proprietary batteries, even if they do contribute to a slimmer camera shell.  I have quite a few Energizer AA rechargeables and a 15 minute charger that gets me up and running for weeks or even months at a time on one charge.  Always easy to find AA's no matter where you're at too.I've been playing around with the A590 for a few weeks now and I am impressed with the picture quality.  I still feel that the Olympus takes consistently better pictures, but it was originally over three times the price, is much bulkier, has major media limitations, and a significantly smaller LCD.  I have tried a number of different settings on the A590 to find what produces the best picture, and I've concluded that I like the "P" mode the best with Auto ISO, Auto White Balance, the max sharpness setting in the "My Colors" setting to offset Canon's inherently smoothed out pictures, 8 megapixels, Evaluative mode, and Superfine.  Also, center focus generally produces the most pleasing pics for me, unless I'm taking portraits.  I've read some reviews that indicate that 8 megapixels is too high of setting for a camera with this size sensor, but I've compared identical photos I've taken with all of the different resolution settings and the 8 megapixel setting does show more detail at the same zoomed out view as the other resolutions.  You particularly notice it with objects that have a lot of detail, such as an oriental rug or a bush in the yard that has a large number of leaves.  With my Panasonic 2GB card, I can take over 550 pics with those settings, more than enough between downloads to the computer.  I'm also very pleased with the videos this camera takes, which my 2GB card maxes out at approximately 25 minutes in length.  Canon dropped the fps from 30 to 20 on this year's model, but it still looks very good for a digicam video.  The audio pickup is impressive as well.I'd like to stress again the importance, in my opinion, of setting the sharpness (under My Colors setting) to the maximum setting if anyone is not initially impressed with the quality of the pics.  When comparing pics to my Olympus 3040, I felt that they were soft and too smooth.  Then I read online that Canon pics have a trademark smoothness to them, which caused me to figure out how to adjust the sharpness to compensate for this, given that I prefer a sharper, more detailed photo.  Since adjusting the sharpness, I'm much happier.  Once you set it, it will remain at the maximum even after cycling the power.  Overall, for the price I've paid I'm happy with the camera and would recommend it to anyone looking at a digital camera in the $125-200 price range.  I don't think you can do any better.
