        Great - Even for a first-timer!, December 7, 2006
        ByTRINICOOLMAN "Mark Lessey" (Trinidad and Tobago)  - See all my reviews
Aye, this camera is great. I suppose I might be biased, this being my first digital, but I have used cameras borrowed from pals in the recent past, and didn't particularly enjoy them (which is why I wasn't too interested in a digi before).Quick startup is a big bonus. On my trip earlier this year, I missed many opportunities for good photos with my pal's HP camera, as it took a few seconds to boot, and seconds between photos. The only video I took had to be tossed due to the 15fps blurry quality (and he had no memory card). The digital zoom was horrible, and indoors photos were really crappy - especially at night.The 30fps movie mode in the A630 is wonderful for a camera of this price - I never use the 15fps mode at all - it's blurry and the picture is 'jumpy,' although if it's done outdoors with good ambient lighting, it seems to work a bit better. I quickly learned to navigate the settings, being a complete novice, but I still need to check the manual on a couple of items that I have no idea about.Even though it won't fit in my pocket and is heavier than many, the battery life is great. I have the camera over a month now, have taken video, stills with and without flash, deleted and re-shot stuff, and still have not changed the original batteries. If this were my pal's camera, I would have changed batteries after about 8 or so shots. Serious.I bought a 2GB SD card for it, along with rechargeables and a charger. The only off-key thing I noticed so far is that the images can get pretty grainy on night-time zoomed indoor shots where incandescent (normal) light bulbs are used. As one other reviewer said, I don't know if I have to tinker with the settings to fix this, but that's the only issue I have had.So basically these things do it for me with this camera:- Excellent battery life - AA size is easy to get and keep for emergencies- Excellent video capture with sound- Quick boot and inter-shot response- Excellent image quality with little or no blur- Nice features such as color swap and pre-sets for common situations, apart from manual settings for more advanced users.- Foldable vari-angle LCD is very very useful - the screen won't get damaged once it's folded in - unlike those with the screen showing at the back. This is great for evaluating your shots, and the quality is pretty good for a small screen.- Image quality settings allow for maximized space utilization on you SD. (GET a 1-Gig or larger card!)Drawbacks:- Some grainy zoomed indoor shots (moreso in nighttime video capture)- Larger than expected- Haven't been able to find the correct carrying case up to December 2006! What?!- Causes me to waste time instead of preparing for my exams! :)Overall, an easy-to-use, excellent camera, straight out of the box. Would recommend it (and already did - 3 of my coworkers are ordering it, so Canon please organize my cut).ML.
