        WOW!, December 3, 2006
        ByT. Goetzka (UTKnoxville)  - See all my reviews
My previous camera was a Samsung digimax--about 4MP, no optical zoom.  It just stopped turning on one day(I had not dropped it or damaged it--just stopped).  It's apparently a common problem with Samsung.This camera is amazing.  It takes fantastic pictures.  It took a picture of my engagement ring perfectly--I will upload a photo if Amazon lets me.   Most cameras cannot focus that closely, and the 1 cm(or something like that) distance was what made me splurge for this over the 5MP Canon. The camera has a function so that it can take panoramic pictures(it holds part of the previous picture on screen so you can line it up), it takes large video for a camera, you can set it to turn everything into black and white except for one color--and can even make said color(say, blue) turn into, red, or any other color you like.  It takes pictures fairly quickly even when using the flash.  I'm impressed with the battery life.  I know I've taken well over 100 photos and several videos, and I haven't had to recharge yet(I picked a camera that used AA's so that I could keep a set handy if I was at a wedding or camping and didn't have the time or place to wait for a specialty battery to recharge).One gripe is that it isn't small enough--I had one of those little cameras before, and I always always got my finger in the shot.  This camera is big enough to hold.  It's not "cute" and it won't fit in your pocket, but it's got too many features to do that.  My only problem is that I get the "shake" warning a lot, nearly all the time if I turn the flash off(which is my own fault).I am very impressed with this camera.  Something that I didn't know until I bought this, but I believe that I saw in the manual that you can replace the lenses and attach a large flash to it.  For me, this is the perfect camera for anyone who wants to work his way into serious photography, or have that option.  I think that 8MP is a great size--not many people will ever need to take more than an 8x10.  If you want bigger than that, might as well pay a professional.  And the camera has a speaker built in.  Rather wasteful on space, but it is nice to play back movies with sound.  And the greatest novelty of all--you can buy a waterproof case if you want to take it to the beach or in the pool.  How sweet is that?
