        Very Capable Camera, June 2, 2007
        ByT. Monroe  - See all my reviews
The first digicam I got (another brand) was very disappointing for my purposes, the A630 is a major improvement.  Autofocus works very well in low light.  The LCD continues to work in dim light also instead of going blank.  Battery life is very good using 2000MAH AA rechargeables.   The tilt/swivel LCD display is very handy when its not possible to get your head behind the camera, such as documenting wiring inside an equipment rack or taking shots from ground level. There is a programmable self-timer mode which I have found to  be useful.  I use the optical viewfinder  often in bright sunlight when the LCD is difficult to see, many other models don't have this.  The A630  is capable of very good resolution, I have used it for photographing some intricate mechanisms and circuit boards and the detail in the pictures has brought favorable comments.  The auto white balance works well in most situations including dimmed incandescent light. Aperture priority mode is great for documentation shots where you need to maximize depth of field, many similar cameras don't have this mode.  Outdoors the A630 reproduces blue sky and clouds beautifully without using any lens filters. I have not used the movie mode so cannot comment on that.The pictures are a bit noisy at ISO 400 and above if enlarged although still good "snapshot" quality. In very dim light (without flash) its necessary to use high ISO and accept a little noise or stabilize the camera and use a slow shutter.   The shiny camera case can be rather slippery to hold, I put a strip of cloth tape on it for a big improvement.  The computer software provided has limited editing features, I use an old copy of Paint Shop Pro if significant editing 1s needed.  Bottom line:  I am very happy with this camera so far, I have been able to get a good picture in just about any situation.  It has many useful features the average "point & shoot" does not which makes it a practical tool for work as well as pleasure photography.
