        Yeah, Baby!, October 18, 2007
        ByT Money  - See all my reviews
I spent many weeks trying decide which camera to buy. I can't do anything impulsively. Finally I was deciding between the nikon s10 and canon a630. i was kind of worried about 4X zoom Vs 10X. After much anguish i picked the a630. it is awesome. the 4X zoom is fine with 8mp, i can use digital zoom(ie crop out part of the picture)and the quality is still incredible. It has all kinds of great extras, but i am just going to focus on the important stuff: quick response, a screen and viewfinder, manual mode, video, powerful flash, variable shutter speed. What's best though is the articulated LCD. At first I thought it was unnecessary that it could swivel and rotate 360 degrees but it is great. While the s10's screen can rotate only vertically in order to take high or low horizontally-oriented shots with ease, it cannot rotate horizontally to easily take vertically oriented shots like the a630. the screen is so great at concerts especially. i can hold it above my head (and the crowd) in the vertical or horizontal position and just point the screen towards me. Also, i like that it takes 4 AAs so i can just use regular batteries if my rechargables ever run out. i got the Eneloop batteries and so far they are awesome. i got the kingston ultimate 2gb card as well. These help my camera to operate quickly in continuous shooting (burst) mode. I can also adjust the size and resolution to shoot faster. the options available are abundant. i can turn off the sound and adjust anything i want. I have taken some sweet concert shots with slow shutter speed and also some beautiful shots of flowers in macro mode. the only things i dislike are: (1) i cant shoot with inverted colors; i would have to invert them after on my computer. (doesnt matter, just would be more fun) (2) There is no dedicated sports mode. I can easily go to manual or shutter speed mode to pick a fast speed, but i just wish it would do this stuff for me. i think this is so i can change other settings as well(ie. shoot in snow mode with fast shutter). I definitely am pleased with my choice.
