        Great camera, January 27, 2007
        ByD. Lewanda "DLewanda" (Cherry Hill, NJ  USA)  - See all my reviews
   My wife and I received a Nikon SuperZoom 5MP camera for our wedding almost 3 years ago.  While it is a great camera, it was too large to be convenient as it required a separate case and was not easy to throw into a purse or backpack.  Due to this size limitation, we rarely had the camera to capture candid moments and general activities.    We also wanted a camera that ran on standard batteries if necessary.  Our old camera ran on a rechargable lithium-ion, but when we went on vacation this summer my wife forgot to pack the charger.  We burned through the battery in the first 2 days and had to resort to disposable cameras for the remainder of our trip.   After reading a number of reviews and hearing a few people mention their happiness, it was clear we wanted a Canon.  Canon makes 2 different lines of "point-n-shoot" cameras, the SD line and A.  Both received high reviews and we could have gone either way.  I decided to purchase the A610 because it appeared to be a sweet spot for the number of megapixels (8), optical zoom (4x) and price.  We took it on vacation over the holidays and took a number of quality shots, ranging from close-up portraits to large scene landscapes.  I used the PhotoStitch feature to grab 5 shots of the desert landscape around Scottsdale, AZ and used the included software to tie it together into a great-looking wide angle shot.  I hope to get the photo printed professionally because it came out too large for my home photo printer.  I also liked how the LCD screen automatically rotates when shooting in landscape or portrait mode.  The controls were very intuitive and easy to use.  The standard SD card slot is a plus as my laptop also accepts SD, thereby allowing me to use my laptop as a transfer device and not require carrying multiple cards.  A 1GB disk is certainly big enough for 1 day of photos, and if it is full, I can easily empty it onto my laptop.     All in all, the Canon A610 is a great looking, feeling and photo-producing camera.
