        Easy to use and takes great pictures, January 19, 2009
        ByKerry D (Southern California)  - See all my reviews
I bought my Canon PowerShot A590 IS about six months ago and I'm very happy with the purchase.  My main use for the camera was to take pictures of faces, groups of people, places, and business images for posting on my website www.iq2.biz.  Example pictures would be office buildings, conference rooms with chairs, people working at laptops etc.   This camera is so easy to use and has so many features that I don't think I can include all of them here so I'll focus on only my top favorites.AA Battery Power#1  favorite feature of the Canon PowerShot A590 is that it uses AA batteries.   What that means is that I (or you) don't have to stop and plug the camera into a wall outlet and wait for the battery to recharge.  No, I can simply carry a few extra AA batteries in my camera case and if I find myself taking 200 or more pictures in one afternoon, I can just replace the batteries and continue taking pictures.  The camera warns you of a low battery power situation with an indicator located on the display.  If you don't want to keep buying AA batteries, you can use rechargeable AA batteries and keep an extra, fully charged set of those batteries in your camera bag, handbag, or backpack.Large 2.5 inch LCD Screen#2 favorite feature is the large 2.5-inch LCD screen with face detection technology and red eye correction.  The display is very big.  You can easily see what you want to photograph without having to squint your eyes.  The image is clear and bright.   If you are taking a picture of a person's face, you can clearly see whether or not the person is ready and the picture will be good or if you have to give him/her some coaching to get a good facial expression.  (eyes open, etc)    You can make the camera focus on a certain face in a group or an object by pressing the picture button down only half way and looking in the display.  You will see a square appear around the face/object and if that's what you want the camera to focus on then you press the button down all the way to snap the picture. The camera has three options to fix red-eye but as of yet, I have not had any pictures which came out with a red-eye issue.  No Blurry Pictures#3 favorite feature is the 4x optical image stabilized zoom.    What this means is the camera has a technology that will keep your pictures from coming out blurry even if you move your hands a little or your subject moves a little bit.  So far, I have not had any pictures with a blurry image.Easy Downloading and Printing#4 favorite feature and maybe the best.  Easy printing - this camera features a Print/Share button for easy direct printing to a printer or downloading to your computer. So to download your pictures from the camera to your computer or laptop, just connect the USB cable to your camera and connect the other end to your computer's USB connection (any of them). Once it's connected and your camera is ON and in the picture review mode, whatever picture software you have installed on your computer will open automatically.  Next, you'll select the menu choice to "download" the pictures to your computer.  (I use Adobe software for digital photos.)  When the pictures are downloaded to your picture directory, you'll see a new folder added with the current date.   You can delete the pictures from your Canon camera after they've finished downloading by either choosing the "delete" menu option in your picture software program or by using the menu button on the back of the camera itself.  The menu button is easy to see on the back of the camera and is the starting point for pretty much any feature you are interested in using.   Just press the menu button and then use the "func set" button to scroll down the menu list which you'll see on the LCD display.    To sum up my thoughts about the Canon PowerShot A590 IS camera, I would have to say it's very easy to use, takes great pictures, and is very inexpensive.  I highly recommend this camera.   
