        perfect inexpensive digital camera, January 9, 2009
        ByTerry R. Nye (Kingsport, TN)  - See all my reviews
I purchased this camera for my wife for Christmas.  She wanted a small camera that was simple to operate and she could carry in her purse.  I won't belabor the details about the camera itself -- there are other reviews already posted that summarize all of its features.  My wife loves the camera because it is pink, small, compact, and simple for her to use.  I tend to be far more critical about my cameras and other electronic purchases.  Despite that, I find the Canon Powershot SD1100is takes very good photos with amazingly accurate color.  In fact, it was all I could do to keep from playing with it before I gave it to my wife for Christmas.  The camera is simple and fun to use.  This camera focuses well even in low light conditions.  The automatic flash seems to assist with focusing in these situations.  The 3X optical zoom is adequate for most closeups.  Anyone needing a more powerful zoom should really be looking at SLR digital cameras.  The 8 megapixel resolution is more than adequate for viewing on a computer screen and should also make fine standard sized print photos.  I'm not sure most people would use this camera to make 8x10 prints, but I believe it would still perform adequately for this.  Battery life is very good.  I charged the battery a few weeks before Christmas, and my wife has already taken numerous photos without needing to recharge the battery.  I purchased a 4 GB SDHC memory card for about $10 (also available from Amazon) and an additional rechargeable battery for about $8 (including S&H).  Canon's (optional) pink custom camera case (which I purchased from Amazon for about $15) makes for a perfect digital camera outfit.  My wife loves the pink case -- it fits the camera perfectly, fits neatly in her purse, and seems rigid enough to protect the camera well.  There is really not room for additional items like the charger, USB cord, and spare memory, so if you need to carry additional things beside the camera you will be better off looking for a larger case.  The camera comes with a USB cord to download photos to your computer, but I find using a separate memory card reader (there are many available for purchase for very little money) makes this simple and easy with no drain on the camera battery.  If you are looking for a stylish, basic digital camera that will take very good photos for not very much money the Canon Powershot SD1100is is well worth a look.  It is available in several different colors.  Frankly, I am strongly thinking about buying one for myself.
