        I love this camera!, May 26, 2008
        ByG.R. "gara56" (Colorado)  - See all my reviews
Some people might say (or complain) that this is not a simple point and shoot camera, but if you leave the camera in the auto setting--this camera is as good as they get. Those complainers might want to consider a disposable camera instead. This is not as complicated as using those $1k+ cameras. The manual setting allows you to different things like stitching multiple pictures if you're trying to take a wide scenic pictures, auto focus, video, etc. I really didn't know what to expect from this camera. I also own the Canon 30D but wanted something a little more portable. I had owned others but always had problems with my images (or my hands) moving too much. The image stability feature on this camera works perfect. When you point this camera at a person/object--one or more boxes come up on the screen to show you what the camera will focus on. This is very useful if you want to focus on objects that are either close to you or farther away. The boxes actually move if the object is moving so you can get a clear picture of them. I which I $1400 camera had this feature. I read the manual while on my flight to Rome and couldn't believe the feature this thing has. I made sure I had a couple of high capacity memory cards for this trip. Don't bother trying to take pictures in dark places using the flash. The pictures will come out dark. This is a common problem a lot of cameras unless you have enough flash power. When I used the video features of this camera, I was able to take some spectacular video inside several churches (dark inside)in Rome. The videos are stored on the memory card in .avi format. I actually downloaded these videos on my computer and pulled out individual frames. I bought an extra battery for the trip but never used it. This thing doesn't use a lot of battery power. I went a min of 2 days (350+ pictures) without charging it. Even then--I really didn't have to charge it. The menus are easy to understand and the camera allows you to adjust the video/audio quality so you can take additional pictures/video. I used Adobe Photoshop Elements 6 to put all my pictures on a DVD with music and narration and played it on a 32-inch TV. The results were better than I expected. I'm going to try and upload a couple of pictures from my Rome, Naples and Capri trip on Amazon. I uploaded the pictures on amazon and can tell you that the results don't do this camera any justice. You can email me--I'll send a couple of video samples that I took when I was in Rome. Please take the time to read the manual and take some sample pictures. I would not manually change the auto settings unless you are familiar with digital photography and how those changes affect your pictures. The auto mode worked very well for me. 
