        Amazon, Amazon, reviewers y'all, tell me which CanonSD is the fairest of all?, March 24, 2008
        ByAnjana Nigam (Atlanta, GA)  - See all my reviews
First about the SD1100 and later in the review, a comparison between Canon SD series cameras. The former Canon PowerShot SD1000 7.1MP Digital Elph Camera with 3x Optical Zoom (Silver) was the perfect tiny camera that you could slip into your shirt pocket and bring out at a moment's notice and begin clicking away. No wonder it has been Canon's top selling model! It was almost perfect except it did not have image stabilization like some other Canon cameras. And now with the SD1100IS Canon has added it's motion detection technology to this tiny camera which will make your shots less blurry, especially in low light.Other enhancement over SD1000 is a slightly rounded styling which feels more comfortable in the hand and gives you a better grip. You can also choose from fun colors - Bohemian brown anyone?  I have several Canon cameras and I use them regularly, but once again the  SD1100 gets a lot of use as it's easy to carry in your tighter jean pocket/shirt pocket.What else is nice about the SD1100 IS? Basic picture taking:It takes excellent outdoor shots and has a satisfactory low light performance for its size. The face detection and auto white balance in the frame help expose faces correctly. It has a viewfinder in case the sun is too bright and an anti-reflective 2.5" screen. You can also use your high capacity SD cards in this baby. Creative features:With this camera you can get creative with "My Colors" features. The Color Accent mode where you keep any one color in the picture while the rest is black and white helped frame a blue sky, blue sea and blue jeans in a b/w group shot. Cool! There are options to swap colors and also take b/w or sepia pics. Read the manual and you'll discover even more fun features.The Scene modes are tried and tested and help you take the best picture. I love "foliage" which brings out the greens or autumn colors. "Fireworks" freezes the bursts of firecrackers in the sky in perfect spheres. "Aquarium" helped me take wonderful shots of fish, before this mode all I got was my flash reflecting on the glass of the tank. The others modes - indoor, beach, snow, kids/pets have been useful too.Making videos:The video mode takes movies in 3 different sizes and it has a time lapse video function. You can set the camera to record at intervals. I used it to capture sun's ascent from sunrise to mid morning and the video looks fabulous. You can even use the creative colors modes while taking video. The image stabilization helps in the video mode eliminating jerky shots.The bottom line? This is a great camera - it's take-along-everywhere tiny, it's got a ton of creative features and takes great pictures, it also comes in fun colors. It's the one to get! EXTRA READING FOR THOSE WHO ARE STILL NOT SURE...If you want the perfect balance between image quality, features, size, layout and last but not the least the price, here is my 2 cents worth. (I own 4 SD cameras and have done some research using all of these for the same picture at the same location.)Image Quality: Top slot goes to the cameras in the 800/900 series. The image quality of SD1100 is a notch below.Layout and controls: The controls are better on the 800/900/700 series compared to SD1100 as you have a separate instant replay button which is very useful to switch between shoot and replay mode. I LOVE this feature as it saves me a lot of time while shooting. It's so much better than the rubber slider on this 1100 model. Screen size: This camera has a 2.5" screen with a viewfinder while some other models offer 3 inch screen but are missing the viewfinder. I prefer the larger screen as the extra .5" makes composing shots much easier. I have NEVER missed the viewfinder yet, even in bright sunlight. Camera Size: SD1100 is the winner here as it's the tiniest. The SD750/770/790 are almost as compact but 800s/900s are bigger.If picture quality is important for you go for the 800/900 series. If smaller size, with nice picture taking capability is important look at the 700 series. If you want the tiniest, convenient camera which takes pretty good shots at a bargain price go for this SD1100. Note: For some additional thoughts click on the comments.
