        canon bestseller, February 12, 2009
        ByDennis D. (Oregon, United States)  - See all my reviews
This is my 3rd digital camera and definitely best yet- great pics & easy to use.(my old cams: canon A75 3.2MP, sony w70 7.2MP) After my two young boys broke the zoom on the sony (argg!) it was time to get a new camera. Some others I considered were the powershot A590IS & SD770IS, and Sony W150.I chose the SD1100 IS for the SD card compatibility, the small ultra-compact size which I think is great for everyday point & shoot, Canon's reputation in digital cameras, optical stabilization, the 230K pixel "pure color 2" LCD, and the relatively inexpensive price, 139$ new. Retailers are charging different prices for different colors, which I think is ridiculous.The 2.5" LCD is plenty big enough on an ultra-compact, in my opinion. There's a trend in digital cameras to replace the optical viewfinder for a larger (2.7 or 3.0") LCD. Now for the included 32MB SD card...really Canon? Give me a break! If you must include one make it at least 1GB, please. Otherwise save the half cent you spent and keep your 32MB baby. Personally, I picked up an 8GB SDHC Kingston.I recommend picking up a 2nd battery for a backup. Unfortunately, the Lithium-Ion battery Canon chose for this camera isn't the best. I got a Lenmar, cheap. Battery charge time isn't too bad though @ 1.5hrs. Also, a small case if you don't have one.I have a few minor con's beyond the battery- appearance wise I really wish the sides were color coded instead of black, optical zoom should be at least 5X, the black plastic mode slider should be some sort of metal button as this gets used often, and the non-locking battery cover is flimsy (handle with care).The 8MP size is perfect for my needs. The megapixel war, with digital cameras featuring 10, 12, or 14MP is just overkill for most ppl. Unless of course you are a pro photographer that need the ability to massively blow up and crop photos. The biggest size I'd print is probably 8x10 and more commonly 5x7, with uploads to PC/email @ 640x480.Overall, though this is a great small camera for the cost. I'd recommend it.
