        READ THIS REVIEW..., August 20, 2008
        ByJohn P. Robertson "whatever" (Dallas TX   USA)  - See all my reviews
I can't say anything about the Canon Powershot SD1100 IS that hasn't already been said... but that's never stopped me before, and it won't now. First a tip; When shooting videos, there is a 4GB maximum file size. For this reason, I use several 4GB SDHC cards, rather than one larger one. That way, in the rare event that a card craps out, you're not sitting on the shoulder, you have a spare tire. And two 4GB cards are often cheaper than one 8GB. But understand that a 4GB card will hold well over a thousand photos at even the highest quality, so if you don't care about videos, just use your old, smaller SD cards. (but not the tiny 32MB one that comes with the camera... it's useless, and not heavy enough to use as a paperweight or big enough for a coaster). This is a decent little camera, compared to the competition at it's price level. It's popularity, and overwhelmingly positive customer ratings, attest to that. But nothing is problem free, and this complex product is no exception. It's inevitable that there will be a certain number of product failures and customer service problems... sort of like the ones I had with Amazon during the ordering of this product... multiple calls with promises but no resolution, made me want to smack my head against the wall. Giant waste of time, but that's how it goes sometimes. In their defense, they have done well on other occasions. I will continue to buy from them if they save me money, but my advice is to know exactly what you want before ordering, and don't even think about making changes to your order... it's like opening Pandora's Box, pandemonium will ensue.(slap forehead, denoting irony, and wring hands in frustration). I see complaints about the camera, and some are valid. But some are not, like, (paraphrase) "It's too difficult to turn off the flash". I don't see how it could be easier, unless someone invents a camera that you can change the settings by "thinking" or "willing" it to change. You press the flash symbol with your thumb to view modes (auto,on,off), press again to set preference... it literally takes one second, and is about as complicated as lifting a toilet seat... and much cleaner. However... I did not perform hands-on tests of multiple competitors of this camera to compare complexity and intuitiveness of controls, so all I know that this camera is not as simple as my old 3.3 megapixel Sony DSC-S75. It takes some time to learn dozens of features, modes, and controls. I am a computer guy, some (me) say a good one. I have MCSE, MCP+Internet, and A+ ratings. That means that I am both a software and a hardware genius, LOL.  However, I can tell you that both you and I will have to show more than a little bit of dedication to learn all the tricks and abilities of this camera, and the more you learn the more fun it is. But the manual is 225 pages, so turn off Jerry Springer and start reading. It's worth the effort.Alternatively, just reset to full auto defaults and go to town immediately. This camera won't perform like a digital SLR, but SLR's don't cost $200 bucks and they weigh a lot more than 4.41 oz. I bought this camera to be able to carry it around in my pocket 24/7, and in my opinion you can't reasonably do that with anything even slightly larger or thicker... even the chunkier Powershot SD's are too big. Again, only my opinion. If not for that, I would have gone for the thicker Canon Powershot SD890 IS with the 5X ZOOM, which is also half again more expensive, of course. I read a lot of reviews on the internet before choosing this unit. I have had the camera for a couple of weeks. After learning the features, I spent a whole day burning it in... as I said above, I have two 4GB SDHC cards plus a 2GB SD card, and two spare Lenmar batteries in addition to the Canon battery that came with the camera. I smoked that sucker, continuous mode with flash. I took hundreds of pics and lots of videos, including the time-lapse variety, cool. I like it. Homey says five stars. ADDENDUM, after spending more time using the camera, possibly belaboring some earlier points;At this writing, about 93% of buyers give this camera a 4 or 5 star rating. Now, some of the complaints from the other 7% are valid, like the one that states that the color swap feature doesn't work very well (but who cares, really?)...But others are not, like the one that states that the time-date stamp doesn't appear until you print out... clearly, the time-date stamp appears very nicely when you review the photo in-camera. The PDF user's guide for any camera is readily available from the manufacturer's website for any camera, and you should read it before buying to make sure that the camera has the capabilities you're looking for. Also, it's a good idea to at least read the same information in the user's guide booklet that comes with the camera after purchase... something that some buyer's clearly don't do. And with the number of features programmed into this and any other comparable camera, you are bound to have difficulty if you try to wing it.  If this review was of any use to you in making your buying decision, click YES below. 
