        Great value for the money, January 6, 2009
        ByT2000KW "greyhound_books" (Chillicothe, OH)  - See all my reviews
I'll leave the detailed feature reviews for those who have the time to write for free, but this camera is a great value for the money. It has aperture priority and shutter speed priority settings, as well as a host of scene modes that shift the white balance to the lighting for various scenes. There's even an aquarium mode, which I've tested and found to be very useful. There are so many features that one might feel overwhelmed, but you can start taking pictures immediately with the easy mode or the auto mode and let the camera take care of things for you. You can disable flash in all modes, so if you are using easy mode in a museum where you aren't permitted to take flash pictures, you can turn it off. Battery life is much better than the last camera I had (a Fuji Finepix 1300), and it takes 1/2 as many batteries (2 versus 4) also. I use the Duracell 2650 ma/hr rechargeable NiMH batteries, the highest capacity I could find locally, and keep 2 spares freshly charged. I haven't tried this camera on alkaline batteries but I would expect shorter battery life, though probably better than in most cameras. Zoom works well. It stops at 4x optical when you zoom but it can go further with digital zoom (with some picture degradation, of course), up to 16x. I like the fact that it stops you from going beyond the maximum optical zoom before you enter the digital zoom, and beyond 4x it changes the magnification factor number to blue characters, so 5.5x would be blue, to warn you that you are beyond the optical zoom's capabilities. It's easy to mute the camera when you turn it on if you need to be quiet when you take a snapshot, as in some nature photography. You just have to hold one button on while you turn the camera on and it puts it in mute mode so the camera doesn't beep every time you push a button to change some setting.Great camera, great price at $109, and you can find it in the Amazon Marketplace for about $10 less right now from Adorama Camera as a refurbished unit if you don't mind that. I would have bought one of those refurbs from them but at the time there were none for sale below $109 anywhere else. If you need more features and greater zoom range, consider the 10x model, but this one got the greatest overall reviews everywhere (not just on Amazon) and that was a major decider for me. 
