        Better than I thought!, May 8, 2008
        ByAngela Dickerson (North Olmsted, Ohio United States)  - See all my reviews
I have been a loyal Fujifilm camera owner for as long as I can remember. I have always loved their cameras and the ease of use. When searching for a new camera this spring, my friend insisted I branch out to a new brand. As difficult as it was (I hate change!) I purchased this camera. I LOVE IT!!! For the same price range, this camera trumps the other camera I was looking at. Tons more features! At first these features intimidated me, but Canon makes it easy! The menus use lots of pictures and simple words. So the photographer dummy I am doesnt get confused. I want to point...and shoot...then print. I am not taking fancy pictures or looking to make poster prints. I have 4 kids, and just want to capture the moments. This camera is great! But even if you ARE an expert, this camera has enough features to keep you satisfied. The BEST feature is how QUICKLY it turns out! Almost instant! Within a blink of an eye the camera is on and ready to take pics. Just as quick between pics too!! My old camera must have had a 5 second delay at least!And the zoom!!! The zoom is amazing! Crystal Clear pictures at full zoom...no joke!!! My old camera got grainy once I hit the digital zoom level. It looks blurry on screen, but once you load it to your computer you see that its crystal clear sharp and crisp! As if you were right next to the object. I couldnt believe it!! The camera is very small too! Fits in my back jeans pocket so i can carry it everywhere! Its less bulky than my cell phone! Weighs about the same as my cell phone too, even with the battery in. Great camera! I am glad my friend talked me into this one! Amazon offered the best price around (By $30!) so I got a great deal. I am very pleased!The next test is to see if it will stand the test of time. My FujiFilm cameras all lasted a long time and took a beating! (One still works and is now my daughters camera) I hope Canon is just as sturdy. Like I said, with 4 kids... things get dropped! :(  Highly recommended camera! No surprise why Canons are rated the #1 consumer camera around!
