        Kodak v1003, December 30, 2007
        ByD. Sosa  - See all my reviews
     I received one of these as a gift.  It's a cute little point-and-shoot, with rounded edges that look like they were inspired by Apple.  The screen is monstrous and the interface is simple enough.  Personally I like the joystick-type navigation, although some of my more heavy-handed friends struggle with its delicate operation.  A refreshing piece of innovation is the ability to recharge the battery while it is onboard the camera.  External battery chargers are great for those who carry more than one battery and like to have a backup charging at all times, but I have never met one of those people.  This is where I will cease praising the V1003.     There are several reasons I returned the camera after owning it for three days.  Firstly, the lack of an ultrasonic autofocus motor means any video taken by a moving photographer, or of a moving subject, will be laden with clicks that drown out recorded audio.  This is because the motor that controls the AF makes enough noise to be picked up by the camera's microphone.  The problem can be avoided by turning off the autofocus, but in many (read most) cases, this is completely unacceptable.     Secondly, the shutter lag was so severe that I found myself taking pictures of the future.  Even after pressing the shutter button half way so that it would finish focusing, once the shutter was triggered, almost two thirds of a second would elapse before the camera recorded anything.  As most of my intended use for a camera is action photography, shutter lag is unacceptable.     Finally, I have no use for 10 megapixels.  If you plan to make posters, it becomes slightly more appropriate, but you will be disappointed by the quality obtained with the camera's tiny lens.  It's been stated before in other reviews, so I won't harp on it, but beyond 5 or 6MP, pixel-count is just another way of keeping up with the Jonses.  Instead of pixels, I look for features and responsiveness, and although the Kodak V1003 is ample in the first department, it lacks severely in the second.     (For those who may be curious, I purchased a Canon S5 IS as a replacement.  I will review it in a while.)
