        takes LOUSY, Grain, noisy picutres, November 30, 2008
        BySun Meng "Alex Sun" (Waltham, MA)  - See all my reviews
I've always leaving 4,5 stars reveiws, and there is a reason I think 1030 sw sucks.I bought a refurbished one on Amazon on Oct 27,2008; and I first seen this camera when hiking with my friend in New Hampshire last winter, I heavily relied on the customer reviews on Amazon to make a decision (was going to by a canon SD), and somehow I pretty set up my mind in buying one so I just ignored the negative reviews and think they either got a lemon or they don't know how to shoot a good picture.And this Thanksgiving my friend came from Detriot to Boston and brought his Canon 1100is, we went to Boston, Harvard University and took a trip to Ipswich which is a beautiful town north of Boston. I wasn't trying to compare anything but just copied all our photos into one folder and boy was I surprised.ALL & EVERY picture that was taken by my $300 something camera was noisy and not focused well, while pictures taken by canon were way better. My friend tried to convince me that my investment was good but even he can tell the huge difference, all the details, focus are lost with this olympus SW 1030 camera. I know how to shoot good pictures and I am so pissed that I spend 300 bucks on this high-end camera and it takes lousy pictures.I was upgrade from a Canon A610 and bought my girlfriend a Canon SD 900, I moved to Olympus because I read an article said that they had a very good DSLR E520, so I figure the SW 1030 should be good, and also I do lots of hiking, mountaineering and sea kayaking, it's just the picture quality is too bad to tolerate, it's far worse than my 3-year-old A 610.Don't say I am not buying the right camera because this camera is good for waterproof, shockproof and all that things. Of course I love those features but I love good quality too!!!!!!!!! If you think quality matters than don't buy this camera, believe me or not you will find out yourself.I've sold mine after Thanksgiving plus the extra 60 bucks I spend on the cases, xD cards, I am thinking of moving to a canon sd 990 but don't have the money now, I'll just wait for the price drop on sd 990.
