        Returning it back in less than 24 hours., June 4, 2004
        By A Customer
My first digital camera was a Kodak, and it was awsome.  After 5 years of use, I dedided that I needed one with a zoom. Thus I bought another Kodak, this one, the CX 7340.  I have been  disappointed with this camera. I took it tonight to my cousin's play, and could not get any decent shots from my 3rd row seat.  Any slight movement of people on stage caused blurryness when I zoomed in and took a shot. 95% of the pics came out awful.Secondly, the Kodak Easyshare software does not fit on my computer screen, and there is no way to adjust it to make it fit on my  screen.  It is frustrating, because it cuts off the pictures on the most right, and there is even no way to scroll left or right to view these pictures. What were they thinking, that we all have 21" screens these days?  I have my display at 800 X 600, which is most comfortable for me and many other people, and their software SHOULD compensate for this and not cause this problem, but it doesn't.  I also have a newer computer, so there is NO EXCUSE for this problem.  My old Kodak Picture Easy 3.1 software that came with my old camera is absolutely wonderful, and does NOT do this.Thirdly, the flash is unreliable.  While taking pictures of my cousin on stage, when using the flash, I got MUCH darker pictures than when not using it.  Very frustrating.  Another problem is that when taking pictures of someone nearby, a few feet away, sometimes the picture is brighter on the left side than on the right. I noticed when looking at the flash directly that it is angled a bit to the left, so this is the reason why. I have no idea why they have done this, but it's annoying to have one side of the picture brighter than the other side in some pictures!  I dunno if mine could be a defect.I do have to say that this camera takes very nice pictures during the day without a flash.  Pictures come out sharp and very detailed, and absolutely wonderful. Too bad this doen't happen when taking pictures at night or in dark situations. VERY DISAPPOINTED. :-(  There is obviously something wrong with the flash in this camera. Mine could be the only one with this problem, but I am returning it and trying a difft brand.Kodak should be the best, but my camera wasn't.
