        Not Thrilled, October 4, 2007
        ByAnnon  - See all my reviews
I spent 2 years looking and waiting for the right camera to come around.  I tried another Kodak easyshare as I like the EASY-ness of them.  I was not happy with that one, so went to the V1003.  I bought it at circuit city BIG mistake (they have a 14 day return) It is not possible to make sure ALL the features on the camera work in 14 days.  And with this camera, they do not work.  The video is VERY noisy! The camera keeps adjusting (why I don't know) and the internal noise causes noise in the audio of the video.  Also with 10MP you'd expect perfection of colors etc.  Not the case. There is a strange blue glow off of white objects in certain shots.  The settings for beach etc for adjust to bright light changes the colors also.  I took a picture of a pond covered in lily pads and the sun was at an angle that was too bright.  I used the beach settings and a few others for bright light and the colors of the pond changed.  The pond appears bright blue in some areas.....believe me this pond is NOT blue.  Trying to take sun pictures with the "filters" causes a weird flower pattern...like a daisy.  My previous camera was a simple Kodak Easyshare 3.1 and it took better pictures, and better video (no noise!).  The buttons on the camera are inset a bit and very small.  I have small hands and it still is difficult to press the buttons.  I usually have to press on several times to get it to come on.  As far as speed, there is too much time between pressing the shutter button and waiting for the green light to actually take the picture.  If you expect to get a shot of something that happens quickly and you need your camera to respond quickly...you'll miss your shot.  If this camera comes down in price significantly, it might be an ok buy...  As you will see by my edit, this is another thing you have to do BEFORE you can do something else with the camera.  There are too many steps and too many ways to miss what you want to capture. EDIT and UPDATE: to solve the problem with the noise in video if anyone has this issue, I found the following:When the camera is in the video mode. You can change the AF Control setting to Single Auto Focus mode, Please folow these steps: 1. Turn the camera on.2. Set your camera to video mode.3. Press menu button.4. Move the Joystick up/down to highlight AF Control then press the OK button.5. Choose Single AF, then press the OK button.6. Press the Menu button to exit.
