        Happy and Satisifed. It's a Good On-The-Go Camera, September 26, 2008
        ByClothes Hog "J" (Canada)  - See all my reviews
I'm an avid Canon fan and recently purchased this camera (in blue) for it's compact size.  I own a 40D which isn't so practical to carry around for everyday use, especially with my battery grip on it!  I previously owned (a now ancient) S40 "compact" camera - which in comparison is not-so-compact.  The SD1100is is amazingly small and light in weight.  It features a viewer which I think will come in handy (and has) in bright light situations where the screen does little or no good.  The 2.5" screen is plenty big, although noticeable smaller than the 3" on some of the other models.  I think the viewer is worth the small trade off.  IS is also an invaluable feature especially with low light situations or non-flash moments.The main issue I have heard of with this series is with potential lens harm if the camera turns on accidentally while in it's case.  It's pretty hard to do since Canon has now made this on/off button flush with the body.  But, my best advice to avoid this situation is to make sure the camera is in play mode (vs. camera mode) when you put it back in the case.  This will prevent the lens from zooming out upon turning on.  I'm not really worried - this has not happened to me yet (well, in the month that I've been carrying it around . . . EVERYWHERE!)  Navigation is easy to pick up on this one - quite different from my older S40, but easy enough to figure out even without reading the manual.  I do suggest buying a spare battery to have on you just in case, especially if you plan on using the video mode (which is really good) since it sucks life quickly from the battery.  I also bought a 8GB HCSD card and reader to go with it to make room for quick videos of my kid :-) and pictures, of course.Other than that, it performs like I expected.  The flash is not the strongest, but then, it's a pocket camera.  If you're looking for more strength from a flash, you'll need to go with external flashing - on a different camera as this one doesn't have that option.  Knowing it's limitations, it does the job for the everyday moments when you "wish you had a camera."  
