        A good camera with a few weak points, April 23, 2006
        ByBernie Bernbaum (Tustin, CA USA)  - See all my reviews
I have a large (35 mm size) digital camera which my spouse really dislikes because of the weight and size.  I happened upon the Kodak Z740 on sale and bought it because of its small size, good optical zoom, and relatively high pixel count.  After using it for a few hundred pictures and a few videos, I find it to be a mix of good features and weaknesses.The good points are:1.  The camera takes good pictures, with good color, under a variety of lighting conditions.  2.  The auto ISO works well with the flash so that you can get a well lit flash picture indoors even at some distance. This is important because the flash on small cameras is usually not very powerful. 3.  The 10X optical zoom was very important to me to be able to reach across a room to get a closeup.  4.  With a 1G SD card, you can take over 600 pictures before the card even thinks of filling up. 5. Burst mode works well and it fun to use, especially since the memory card holds so many pictures. 6.  The video feature is also a lot of fun and works well, and records sound pretty good.  A video does not use up excessive memory.  I found that I started using the video more and more.  A short (30 to 60 seconds) video is fun to watch and not as tedious as most home videos.7.  It's easy to access the shutter and f-stop controls in program mode.  In fact, all of the controls are easy to use, and the menu for setup is easy to understand.8.  The shape of the camera fits the hand well.  It's easy to handle and reach all the controls.The weaknesses are:1.  The camera takes too long to start up.  If you have the camera turned off and have a picture to take, you'll probably miss the shot.2.  (this is a big problem) The camera shuts down after some time that you can set in the setup, maybe three or five minutes.  It doesn't go into sleep mode - it shuts down.  What the camera should do is go into sleep mode and wake up when you press the shutter buton half way.  To wake the camera back up you have to turn it off and then turn it back on again, guaranteeing that you will miss whateve shot you want to take.  The designers were probably trying to save people from themselves by sutting off the camera after some time.  Perhaps on a future camera they'll offer an option of "shut off" or "sleep".3.  The camera is slow to focus in lower light conditions.  Again, unless you take the focus time into account, you'll miss your shot.  Focus time in good light is a bit slow but acceptable.4.  With QuickView on, the camera is slow between shots - you just can't take a few shots in quick succession, except in burst mode.  If you turn QuickView off, you get a bit faster cycle time between pictures but it's really nice to see the picture after you take it. One way to solve this problem is to show the QuickView on the LCD screen, and let the eye viewer continue to operate as a viewfinder.  5.  Battery life is so-so.  The lithium ion batteries are too expensive and with rechargable batteries the time between seeing the "low battery" indicator and the camera not working is much too short.  You really need to have a replacement set of batteries in your pocket because the camera will stop working without much warning.The lens cap is junk - throw it away and get a netural density filter if you're worried about damaging the lens.  But digital cameras are disposable - this one will be obsolete in a few years so don't worry about damage to the lens.Some people have commented about the lack of image stabilization but I certainly have not missed it.  The imager in the camera has good sensitivity and coupled with the auto ISO the camera never seems to shoot at a slow enough sutter speed that you'd need stabilization.  Perhaps in very low light conditions, or in special situations with extreme zoom, it'd be of value.   There are a few other things I'm not crazy about but they are more in the area of personal preferences so I won't list them here.  I don't use the PC software that came with the camera so I can't comment on it (I didn't install it).  All-in-all, the camera is not bad, but I'd sure like one that solved some of the problems I listed above.  My spouse loves it, primarily because it's smaller and lighter than my digital SLR.
