        For those who are having problems with the Video (sound), May 13, 2006
        ByMark Burke "StillHere" (Ohio)  - See all my reviews
I've noticed on several sites, that some are reporting that the sound doesn't work when playing the video files and the camera appears to be broken for this reason.  Video players such as Microsoft's Media Player may play the video, but it won't play the audio sound unless you have Apple's "Quicktime" loaded on your computer, as Kodak chose to couple their video to the Quicktime format.  You can download the watered down version of Quicktime for free from the Web (and it provides an alternative to MS Media Player also.) If you don't like having Quicktime being a memory hog and starting up each time you start your computer, you can set those preferences, and you can keep it from showing up in the systray on the lower right side of your screen by going to the following in Quicktime: Edit/Preferences/Quicktime Preferences/Browser Plugin and then uncheck the QuickTime System Tray box.  If I fault Kodak, it would be that this is not well known, this is hardly user friendly and it's caused them to receive a lot of bashing on a number of internet sites until the cause is discovered.  Seems like an easily avoidable casualty.  Kinda reminds one of the goofy stuff American automobile manufacturers did, like making economy cars and then forcing their owners to fill up with the most expensive high-octane gas, or advertise big vehicles with big motors when record prices were on the way, while the competition continued to pump out record numbers of small, efficient, well engineered cars.The camera itself, takes excellent pictures, especially during well lighted conditions, and the zoom has allowed me to take pictures of deer at distances I wouldn't have thought possible just a few years ago.  You can cut the next-shot "wait" time in half if you shut off the picture review on the rear view panel.The "sound" mess with Quicktime, is the only reason I give it 4 stars instead of 5, because other than that "duh," seems to be an excellent camera.
