        Overall good camera, January 1, 2006
        ByJason Minnick "Jason" (Seattle)  - See all my reviews
This is the first digital camera I have purchased and overall this is a great camera. Very durable and water resistant, works great in snow too, and holds up well when traveling, I use re-chargeable batteries and it has a great battery life. Without knowing anything about digital photography I have taken some fantastic pictures with this camera. The auto focus can be a little fussy and you definately need a tri-pod or some method of stabilizing the camera when going for a long zoom shot, I often use my wife to steady the camera. The easy share printer dock has performed fairly well, there have been a few instances of poor quality pictures but I think this is due to a little dust in the printer from traveling. The pictures are not photo lab quality but they are nice enough for on the go printing. A few reveiws mentioned the color being off sometimes but I attribute this to my lack of knowledge. I have bee able to adjust the pre-set options and resolved these issues. As well as poor lighting, my free version of photoshop resolved any lighting, and color issues related to my inexperience. My friend has the similar model with the black case and that camera has made consecutive trips to Afghanistan and Iraq and performed very well under these harsh conditions. If you are running Windows XP64 bit, there are no drivers at this time so you have to do trick you OS into talking to the camera through the easy dock printer. I e-mailed Kodak tech support and they wouldnt give me a straight answer when they were going to have 64bit drivers, they acted like it was a matter of national security and wouldn't give me a release date. Also, the camera does not come with a USB cable for camera to PC communication. Overall though, I have no complaints. It is a large camera, unless you really need the 10x optical zoom I would look at getting a smaller point and shoot digital. Also you don't need a 5mp camera for great 8x10's I have seen a 3.2mp camera soot great 8x10's.   
