        Glad I waited, November 28, 2006
        ByEric Nord (Downey, CA USA)  - See all my reviews
This is my first digital SLR, I moved up from an extremely capable Panasonic FZ20.  I've actually been looking for an DSLR for a long time and checked out the D80, A100, and XTi, but in every model it seemed as though something was missing.  The D80 took great pictures, but was more expensive than it's competition, lacked shake protection, and it didn't have any dust removal features.  The A100 sounded great since it had everything I wanted, but it ended up taking not so great pictures and it really felt cheap in my hands.  The XTi was close, but no shake reduction and it was really too small for me (very uncomfortable).  I really waited a long time to get the K10D and almost bought the D80, but I'm glad I waited.  The K10D is perfect for me since I don't have lots of money to spend on lenses with VR or IS.  Also, although Pentax does not have as many lenses as Nikon or Canon, the Pentax lenses are cheaper for their optical quality.  I personally bought the 18-55 kit lens and the 50-200 lens and both feel really solid, have metal lens mounts, and are optically pretty good compared to the competition.  Another thing that was really important to me was the weather seals on the  K10D.  Although I wont use them that often (to my knowledge Pentax hasn't released any sealed lenses yet), but I'm glad I have it now.  I remember last time I was in Hawaii it was raining during a trip through the rainforest and I was unable to use my camera since I was afraid it might get ruined.  With the K10D I hopefully wont miss anymore pictures in the rain and I read that even unsealed lenses are very hard to ruin with water.  It's a shame I didn't have weather seals before since I most likely wont go to the Hawaiian rainforest again.I have had some problems with the K10D though.  The noise is pretty bad at high iso (800-1600), but less than pictures I've seen taken with the A100.  The 18-55 lens has some vignetting at 18mm and also the aperture is not constant it's 3.5-5.6 on the 18-55 and 4-5.6 on the 50-200.  The lens cap is sort of tricky to take off with the hood on.  My K10D also front focuses sometimes (rarely) which can be annoying, but I read that this happens with most other DSLRs, and it also has some problems focusing in low light.  I really haven't used it enough to see if the dust system really works, but so far I've had zero problems with dust.Overall I'm extremely happy with the K10D and I can't imagine using a different camera.  It feels extremely solid and if I dropped it I doubt it would break.  The TAv mode is priceless and I'm set to that 90% of the time.  I can't believe no other companies have that feature.  Anyway, I can't give the camera 5 stars since it does have some flaws and I will no doubt find more after using it longer since I've only had mine for about a week (I've taken about 500 pictures).
