        Olympus 1030SW - I like it!, March 20, 2008
        ByAndrew S. Cohen (New York, NY United States)  - See all my reviews
I, after much research, purchased this camera about a week ago.  Since then I have shot about 100 pictures both indoors and out, on cloudy and sunny days.  I have also shot quite a few macro photos on both manual and automatic settings.  I have experimented with some the scene modes.  I have not tested the movie mode and have not dropped it, frozen it or submerged it yet (however I am going snorkeling in the Bahamas next month).  The build design is definitely rugged and the fit and finish is excellent.  This is the best built point and shoot I have ever handled.  The LCD is big and bright and the buttons and menus are well designed and laid out.  Flash seems consistent with other point and shoots in this category (so-so).Photo Quality:  For the most part I am pleased with the photos, especially those taken close up using all three of the macro modes.  Outdoor pictures in sunlight were sharp and clear.  Cloudy day photos lacked a little sharpness that I felt I got more of with my Canon 870 however I also think that I need to experiment with the spot metering focus mode versus the ESP metering mode.  I know my Canon had 9 point AiAf focusing which seemed to make more objects in the photo in focus.  I don't think this camera has the same type of focusing system.  I haven't really tried the face recognition feature that much but it did work when I tried it in the store prior to purchasing.  The color reproduction seems accurate to me and the photos I took outdoors on a sunny day seemed to really pop.  Indoor photos seemed overly noisy however this has been consistent with other point and shoots that I have owned (Canon S500 and 870).  Value:  The price of this camera is admittedly high however it does offer features that other point and shoots in this category don't.  The crush, freeze and water resistant features are compelling.  I typically have very high expectations for items that I purchase and initially was a little disappointed with this camera.  However as I use it more and take more pictures with it I am becoming increasingly satisfied.  It's not a digital SLR and it doesn't have a lot of manual controls, viewfinder, light-up-the-night-sky flash, etc.  It is a very well built, extremely rugged and water proof (to 33ft) 10MP digital camera with a decent LCD, zoom and software that takes good point and shoot quality photos.
