        Great little camera , April 13, 2008
        ByJenni  - See all my reviews
I bought this camera for an upcoming trip to Costa Rica for 3 months. I wanted something lightweight and rugged - and this fit the bill. I normally use a Canon Powershot S2 IS - this is my first camera outside of the Cannon family, and I've had quite a few dating back to the Canon AE-1 SLR. I was sold by the Olympus 1030SW because of its underwater capabilities, and it's "crushproof"-ness. My Canon Elf traveled around in my pocket to all the college clubs and parties, and eventually the LCD screen broke. Since that, I have been more aware of how neglectful I can be of my electronics, so I was willing to pay the $$ to have a camera that is practically indestructible. I have yet to test the underwater capabilities. I looked at the 790SW model, but was interested in greater underwater depth capability, and after checking them both out at my local retailer, I liked the feel of the 1030 - it just seemed to be more heavy duty. I have been very impressed with the pictures I've taken so far. For a point and shoot, I really like the range of options I have. The macro function performs nicely, in both low and high lighting conditions. The "natural light" mode is by far my favorite, I personally dislike photos that look whitewashed by a flash when it's hardly necessary to the photo. On auto the pictures look good - your average point and shoot. The shutter speed is much better than my Cannon S2, and so far the battery life has been great as well. Many of the features I haven't had a chance to use in the month I've had the camera, but if I have any issues I'll be sure to update this review!I'm giving it 4 stars because of the price. You pay a premium at this point because it was just released and for all the "shockproof/waterproof/etc" capabilities. If that's what you are looking for, then it's great. If you are looking for excellent quality photos, and don't care much about where the camera goes and what conditions it works in, then I'd shop around for a more affordable option. I'll update this post CR with results from the trip...
