        It comes with a MicroSD adapter, October 14, 2008
        ByJ. Hanson (Averill Park, NY USA)  - See all my reviews
I just got my camera today and have only used the 7.1 version.  From that experience I didn't want to repeat what everyone else has already said, I just wanted to share my story so far.The back story:I purchased the Panasonic Lumix DMC-FS5.  It was a nice little point and shoot camera, but after carrying it around in my pocket one day, lint got behind the lens.  Having had a couple point and shoot cameras in my time, I didn't even realize this was possible, it's never happened before.  I've only had it a few months and short of completely disassembling the camera, there's nothing I can do about it.  The pictures are so bad now it's not worth taking any.  Frustrating!Flash forward to a couple weeks ago:I took the kids to an indoor water park and didn't even bother bringing the lint damaged camera.  After a couple hours of fun, I noticed the park had digital waterproof cameras for rent so I tried it.  It was the Olympus 7.1 megapixel camera.  It was great, I could take it down the slides, take underwater shots of the kids in the pool and carry it around without having to worry about anything.  The shots were good, not outstanding, but good considering what I was putting it though.So that got me to thinking, I didn't really need a waterproof camera, but if I had one, I wouldn't have to worry about LINT!So as to not get burned again, I went out and did a little looking around.  There really wasn't much else out there.  So I got this 10 megapixel version in hopes of a slightly better picture, after all, 7.1 was good, 10 must be great! Right?  Anyway, when I went to order, this is when I got schooled on memory cards.  From what I found, Olympus and Fuji only use XD cards, which are slower and more expensive.  Not to mention, the biggest card I could find was 2 gigs.  I'm sure that will be fine for the most part...and if not, I could get another... but I already had gigs of SD and MicroSD cards, so I wasn't real happy I couldn't use those.So my camera shows up today, I open the box and right on top is an Olympus XD adapter for MicoSD cards!  Fantastic.  I didn't recall seeing anything about an adapter anywhere I read, so I just wanted to pass this along.
