        noisy but powerful camera, software downgraded, February 16, 2009
        ByActiveInCA (Los Angeles, CA)  - See all my reviews
I got this camera to replace my Canon Powershot A520 4.0MP ps camera since I'm due with our 2nd baby in less than 2 weeks. It was so cheap I couldn't resist (only $109). I like being able to take short video clips and wanted the higher MPs for photos and needed something small for days when I don't want to lug my DSLR + lens around along with my diaper bag. I think it'll do the job well. Some things I dislike though: 1) The camera is slow on rechargeable batteries unless the batteries are fully charged. Noticeably slower than with the A520. 2) Also powering on/off is noisy due to mechanical noise associated the lens opening/retracting (this is audible and unpreventable even with all volume/sounds turned off except for playback  the self timer). Much more audible than our Powershot A520 and I would be nervous using it in a quiet setting like a wedding or funeral.My major gripe is with the new Zoombrowser 6.1 software that came with the A590IS. The A590IS won't work with the older Zoombrowser SW I have (version 5.0), images show up as question marks and do not download at all. I did not have any problems removing my old SW as a previous reviewer mentioned--my Dell laptop running Windows XP actually automatically removed the old version and installed the new version when I loaded the CD-ROM that came with the new camera.The most annoying feature of Zoombrowser 6.1 is that it automatically connects you to the "CameraWindowDC" interface that has no instructions and just a bunch of buttons to click on if you plug the camera in using the USB cable to download images. I can't find a way to bypass this interface and still connect to the camera. This method of connecting takes away the option to set the individual image file names and download folder name automatically as was possible with the Zoombrowser 5.0 version--I like to use the shooting date + a 4 position sequence number and I like give folder names that reflect the event/occasion, not simply the shooting date. So now there are many extra steps to rename the files and move them into an appropriate folder. However, the features to set the file names and download folder are available if you use ZoomBrowser 6.0 to connect to a memory card (like when I download images from my DSLR using a USB-based multi-memory card reader). In Zoombrowser 5.0, you had the option whether you were connecting directly to the camera or a card reader or directly to a memory card.So now the best way for me to download the images from the A590IS while maximizing the utility of Zoombrowser 6.0 is for me to take the SD card out of the camera and put it into the built-in SD card reader in my laptop. Then I have the option to select a specific download folder  set the way I want the images named as they download.
