        Great Photos, a little bulky, December 1, 2007
        ByAvory H. (Magdeburg, Germany)  - See all my reviews
I bought my A630 about 4 months ago. Before I had a Kodak Easy Share 4.0 mpx, and I figured it was time for an upgrade, because I was going to study abroad in Germany for the semester and I naturally wanted really good photographs. It's a month before I come home and overall I have to say that I love the pictures this camera has produced. I'm not a photographer, but I am really picky about photo quality, and this camera doesn't disappoint. It has a setting for virtually everything you could want. Sometimes the setting for the situation wouldn't work as well as other settings (for taking a picture of a statue at night, I got the best picture with the indoor setting without flash instead of the night setting. Who would have guessed?) Also, sometimes my pictures would be blurry or have a lot of noise in the pictures with indoor settings. The blurry-ness could get annoying sometimes when I just wanted to take a great picture, but I would just apply the high ISO or change settings and it would be fine. While traveling, the biggest problem I've run into with this camera has been the size. I knew it was big when I bought it, and it was a sacrifice I was willing to take. But I think it's worth mentioning: This is no pocket camera.My favorite thing about this camera is all of the customization features for pictures before you take it. I also find it really easy to use these features, which is nice for click-and-go situations. My personal favorites are the color exclusion and foliage setting. They make outdoor pictures look really natural (even with people in them). Also, the rotating screen has come in handy, not just for self/group portraits (because it's awkward to ask a passerby in another language to take your picture) but for awkward shots too. Instead of bending over to get a good angle, I can just rotate the screen and see what kind of a shot I'm going to get. Along the same lines, I've gotten good videos out of my A630 as well. You can tell exactly what the talking moose is saying in a crowded market!I also found it useful to use rechargeable batteries because the camera does hold 4 of them (they last for quite a long time!) and it's just cheaper in the long run if you rely heavily on your camera day in and day out. Overall, through my experience, I would recommend this camera to anyone who travels and wants unforgettable pictures and is willing to settle for a bulky camera. I can honestly say that this camera has brought out the mini-photographer in me, because now I try every setting and angle to make stuff look cool! 
