        from a graphic designer, January 20, 2008
        Bymyrlie "cjjlenny" (Rock Island, IL)  - See all my reviews
I purchased this camera as an upgrade from what I call my purse camera. I like to carry a camera absolutely everywhere I go. In the past I've always carried point and shoots but had decided I would prefer a camera that had the ability to go manual. Plus the rotating LCD was such a plus when it came to this department.When I first purchased the camera I was absolutely ecstatic. I'd heard such raved reviews about the A610 which had recently retired from retail shelves. I got it home and discovered that well, maybe I wasn't so hot a photographer after all. I avoided it for about 6 months before it made itself into the purse after all. I had the same problem everyone else seemed to have with taking photos indoors. It didn't compare to my 3.2MP HP Photosmart 735. I didn't expect the world but comparable indoor shots to an outdated point and shoot were kind of on my list of great expectations. I actually found out I can shoot video in a scene I can't take a photo in and the video look perfectly fine. It's a better camcorder than a camera sometimes, if it wasn't for the pesky memory limit. And the software freezes upon completion of upload every time. With the help of imaging software I have come to actually love this camera. I don't mind airbrushing or touching up the color and light settings later on...that's what I do for a living and what I love. It's a workable lighter camera for the professional but I would not advise it for the everyday consumer.Somewhere in the past month the camera has become severely damaged physically. It went on this crazy trip through the City Museum in Saint Louis (think giant metal playground) and I don't know exactly what happens but on my way home I realized that it was dented badly. I can only imagine what kind of a blow it took. It still works just the same however and functionally I never would have noticed. All of the pictures survived the ordeal.I am hoping to upgrade in the near future, being that mine now looks like a car wreck, and of course technology progresses. I will still probably look to Canon. This hasn't turned me completely off. Everything has to have it's downers and it's just unfortunate this one has such a huge curve to overcome. I've taken roughly 5,500 images/video with this camera and don't plan on completely setting it out to pasture in it's older age. I'm sure it will accompany me to more "dangerous" places to keep the new guy safe at home.
