        8 megapixels of point and shoot, January 2, 2007
        ByMichael Horn "mikie" (US Army Combat Support Training Center, Dublin, CA)  - See all my reviews
My Canon A85 was stolen from my car recently - and I needed a "point and shoot" camera of compact size when my Digital Rebel and camera bag are not needed or welcome.Canon no longer makes a compact "PowerShot" camera with CF Memory cards - and since I have a large investment in AA rechargables - I opted for this model over Canon models with a more compact lithium battery power source.Following the theme of the Powershot A70 - A95 - the camera is somewhat compact - except for the battery compartment holding 4 AA batteries. IT comes with 4 Alkalines - but you can go thru those in no time. Get yourself a set of rechargable 2300-2500 Amph/hr and be done with it. Additional thickness is added to the case to accommodate the swivel LCD viewer. Memory is located in with the battery compartment - the tiny SD card is spring loaded in a slot. I chose a standard speed 1 gig card - and shoot max resolution every time. I dislike mixing batteries and memory access on the same latch - having visions of AA batteries rolling loose everywhere ... lol... The camera has a need for greater power than ever - larger LCD viewer, more powerful flash and better, faster computer...The large LCD viewfinder is twist/movable in many directions. It is bright but strong sun will wash it out. The optical viewfinder is a good backup for strong sun situations.The built in speedlight/flash on the A630 continues Cannon's tradition of redeye - even with redeye setting utilized. The flash is more powerful than ever - as is the computer in auto setting - fastest setting yet - with fewer 'hunting' delays in low light situations. Picture quality is simply outstanding - vibrant oversaturation of colors - zoom lens adequate out to 4X - continue to stay away from that digital zoom past 4X...Overall - the A630 is a grown-up version of my A85. I like the swivel LCD viewer, faster computer, and familiar controls. It enables me to utilize my investment in rechargable AA batteries - and the whopping 8MP of picture quality gives me pause to take my 'digital Rebel' dSLR on vacation.Disappointed I am with the SD card in the battery compartment and the discontinuance of CF memory in the PowerShot line. On the positive side - I find no need to purchase the 10 MP model - the 8 MP of the A630 showing virtually no difference in picture quality in my camera use.
