        So far, So good., September 25, 2008
        ByR. Bain  - See all my reviews
Usually I do not take the time, but I felt obliged to write a review for this camera. That's because it took me so long to decide which one to buy. I am a point and shoot type of person with a side of "wanna-a-be" photographer.  So, I wanted a camera with perks but easy to use.  So far I really like this camera.  My old one was a Nikon cool pix.I liked it well enough, though it was a gift so not personally choosen. Anyway, I dropped that one in the river. I really wanted a canon but was concerned about the lense errors I had read about.  I think it's just something you have to stay conscience of. I bought a case and I haven't had any problems.  As far as picture quality, it's pretty sweet.  I love the macro mode for close ups of bees and flowers and hummingbirds. However, it works great for regular pictures too. You can set it to where it makes chirping noises or barking when you shoot which is funny for kids. Also the video is really good. It only had 3x optical zoom which is another reason why I hesitated. But, I haven't found I miss it for how compact the camera is.  Even with the case it fits in my purse good. I would advise you use the wrist strap always b/c it is small and could slip out of your hands and then you would probably bump the lense and get the lense error. I got the blue one and I love the color - makes it easy to know it's mine cause most people have silver.  Oh yeah, I really like the different settings. It has a sunset, beach, foilage, snow, action, black and white, sepia tone, etc. I use the sunset setting every night to take a different picture of my lake sunset and it's beautiful.  I've found the battery life is fine, especially if you use the view finder instead of the screen.  The Nikon I had before came with a dock and tons of cords to charge it.  This one has a battery-only dock the gets plugged directly in the electrical socket.  Way better for everday use and trips. I've only had to charge it once so far and it's been over a month. Overall, I am very happy with my purchase and would recommend it. Especially because it was at a competitor for $50 more.***I almost forgot: in order to view your pictures on the camera the switch must be set to view mode.  If you are concerned about the camera turning on in your purse, turn it to this mode and then push the power button off.  Then, if it gets turned on accidentally, the lense will not come out b/c it is in view mode! (:
