        Best VIDEO quality of compact cameras, January 8, 2009
        Byidlewire (NYC)  - See all my reviews
I wanted a pocket camera that also took good video at 640x480. A friend of mine had the older SD1000 and I was particularly struck by the smoothness of the video. However, since that model was older, I tried the SD770 (since it was around the same price as the SD1100 and had more megapixels). What a disappointment! The video quality of the SD770 is far inferior to this camera, showing that "more megapixels" isn't always a good thing.Along the way, I have compared video quality of similar cameras by Casio, Fuji, Samsung, and other Canons. The SD1100 -- for whatever reason -- has the least noise and most watchable video.(A downside to the video is that the focus will not change during the length of the video, it is "frozen" at the moment you start recording. However this is true of all compact cameras.)As for picture quality, it is pretty good, but I found the SD770 to have a slight edge. However, for me, the vastly improved video quality was reason enough to choose this camera. I hate using flash, I don't like the way the resulting lighting looks, so I use this camera almost exclusively without flash. Set in "Auto" mode, the auto white balance leaves a lot to be desired, especially in indoor shots. Depending on the lighting, your shots may come out looking too yellow.However, I almost exclusively use this camera in Manual mode, and switching to Tungsten white balance usually helps for indoor pictures. As a plus, it also has a "manual white balance" mode, where you focus on something white and press a button, for lighting situations in which the presets are not perfect. This is a great feature too.Although you don't have direct control over shutter speed, there is an "exposure" setting.  I frequently use this to lower the exposure for indoor shots, so that the shutter speed will be greater, so that blurriness will be less of an issue. The picture will not be as bright, but in many cases will be clearer.Overall, I recommend this camera particularly if you are interested in shooting video. The picture quality is pretty good too but you may have to switch to Manual mode in some situations.
