        Highly Disappointing, January 5, 2008
        ByE. Santos (Downey, CA USA)  - See all my reviews
I bought this camera for only $140 and that price was one of the defining factors for my purchase.  I had read all the reviews and yet I thought that this camera couldn't be as bad as some people thought.  Sadly it is.  I used to own the kodak V603, which was only 6 MP, but it still performed better than this camera.  That camera was ruined after I went kayaking and I and my camera went into the water.  I also used to own the C340 but my brother broke that.  It was only 5 MP and did better than this camera.  Next time I'll buy the V1253 as a replacement.Negatives:-The picture quality is low compared to the V603 except in bright light where it is about the same.  Pictures come out blurry indoors and often grainy.-In the sun, you can't see the screen at all.-You can hear the camera zoom in and out when taking video, and even when it's quiet you hear too much noise.-IT FREEZES A LOT.  That pissed me off the most.  I thought it was just my camera but my mom's friend has the same problem with the same camera.-The button to turn off flash is in the upper lefthand corner, which is inconvenient for people like me who prefer it next to the On/Off button to immediately turn flash off.  -After using it awhile, it says "Unrecognized file format" when I go into review to view pictures it recognized only a minute ago.  To fix that i just turn it off and leave it alone for awhile, but it does get annoying.-Takes a long time to focus.-Takes awhile to turn on.-The camera itself is pretty thick.-Anti-blur mode makes pictures grainy instead of blurry.Positive:-It looks nice.-Good pictures outdoors.-The joystick is fun.-Perfect touch technology right on the camera.-Over 20 modes to choose from to fit your setting, including panorama.Overall, this camera sucks. Even though i haven't tried the V1253, I'd recommend trying that over this camera.  At least the V1253 has face recognition, HD video, and a large screen that may actually show excellent quality pictures the V1003 can't deliver.
